COMP 1012
=========

Calendar entry:

> An introduction to computer programming suitable for solving problems in
> science and engineering. Students will implement algorithms for numerical
> processing, statistical analysis and matrix operations.

Sources of information
----------------------

* Langtangen's textbook
* Me
* Rob Guderian (taught in Fall 2019)

Tasks
-----

* [X] Get learning outcomes from course schedule winter 2019.
* [ ] Compare learning outcomes to evaluation tools for alignment.

Course objectives
-----------------

What are the major objectives for a student taking this course?

* Gain basic programming skills by writing programs in the Python programming
  language.
* Describe basic programming concepts and constructs in plain English.
* Get a better idea of how we communicate ideas in a way that computers can
  understand and act on.
* Write programs to process data and conduct statistical analyses.
* Use specialized tools to solve computationally difficult operations (matrices,
  numeric processing).

Learning outcomes
-----------------

### Week 0: Introductions

* Briefly describe "computer science".
* Use an IDE to write and run a very simple Python program.

### Week 1: Basics

* Evaluate arithmetic expressions written in Python.
* Define, assign, and print the value of variables in a Python program.
* Explain the differences between primitive data types in Python (`int`,
  `float`, and `str`).

### Week 2: Strings and basic I/O

* Explain the difference between a string and a number.
* List properties of strings (i.e., immutability, indices, length)
* Write a program that gets input from the keyboard (`input`).
* Use format codes to print messages containing variables.
* Convert strings to numeric types with the `int` and `float` functions.

### Week 3: Files and iteration

* Write a program to open a file and read the contents of a file.
* Write a program that uses a loop to iterate over lines in a text file.
* Apply basic numeric processing to the contents of a file.
* Use the `split` function to separate records in a delimited file.

### Week 4: Representing information

* Compare and contrast primitive data types (`int`, `float`, `str`) and
  sequences (`list`, `tuple`, `str`).
* Use sequences to solve a problem.
* Compare and contrast sequences (`list`, `tuple`, `str`) with collections
  (`set`, `dict`).
* Use collections in a program to solve a problem.
* Iterate over lists in multiple different ways (`for`each, `range`, `enumerate`).

### Week 5: Booleans, conditionals, and `while` loops.

* Compare number types with relational operators.
* Create and evaluate boolean expressions.
* Execute code 0 or 1 times with a conditional statement (`if` and `elif`).
* Execute code 0 or more times with a `while` loop.
* Decide which kind of looping structure (`for` or `while`) is appropriate for a
  problem.

### Week 6: Random numbers and functions

* Explain the difference between truly random and pseudo random numbers.
* Use random numbers in a simple simulation.
* Create and use a user-defined function that accepts no parameters.
* Create and use a user-defined function that accepts one or more parameters.
* Define the terms "pass-by-value" and "pass-by-reference".
* Write a function that modifies the data passed to it, by reference.

### Week 7: Introduction to numpy

* Choose the appropriate numpy data type for a given problem.
* Import and use external libraries for advanced processing in a Python program.
* Compare and contrast built-in Python sequence types (`list`, `tuple`, `str`)
  with numpy arrays.
* Create numpy arrays using the `array`, `arange`, and `linspace` functions.

### Week 8: Multidimensional arrays

* Explain how numpy arrays are *fundamentally* different from sequences.
* Create and use multidimensional numpy arrays to solve a problem.

### Week 9: Recursion

* Write a program that traverses a file/folder structure with recursion.
* Write and call a recursive function in Python.

### Week 10: Recursion and file systems

* Create a recursive algorithm for a given problem.
* Find a file in a file/folder structure with recursion.
* Create and read a file. :duplicate:

### Week 11: Plotting and pandas

* Plot numpy data with matplotlib.
* Create and use a `DataFrame` in pandas.
* Create a calculated column in a pandas `DataFrame`.
* Do joins and aggregation on columns in a pandas `DataFrame`.

### Week 12: Instructor choice

No formal, testable outcomes are presented in this week. The week only had one
class, so could have been given as a "review" class.
