COMP 1020
=========

Calendar entry:

> More features of a procedural language, elements of programming.

Sources of information
----------------------

* Olivier Tremblay-Savard (taught in Fall 2019)
* Scuse's textbook (find PDF?)
* DE version of course I taught in 2016

Tasks
-----

* [X] Contact Olivier
* [ ] Extract outcomes from Olivier's Fall 2019 offering.

Course objectives
-----------------

Course objectives from distance section:

* Apply programming techniques learned in COMP 1010 to newer and larger
  problems.
* Use classes and objects effectively.
* Write software that deals with large sets of data using files stored on disk.
* Create and use collections of data, with an emphasis on the use of classes.
* Solve problems using related classes (inheritance).
* Apply common algorithms, such as searching and sorting, to collections.
* Formulate recursive solutions to problems, and write recursive
  (self-referential) methods.
* Use data structures other than arrays (such as 2D arrays and linked lists).
* Recognize when alternate data structures are appropriate to certain kinds of
  problems.
* Compare the efficiencies of different algorithms used to solve similar
  problems.

Learning outcomes
-----------------

### Week 1 & 2: Course introduction, real Java

**Note**: Most of this week's content is reviewing content from 1010, and/or
translating Python concepts into Java for 1012 students. I wonder how many
students are enrolled in 1020 from 1012, and if the outcomes listed here are
disproportionately large for the number of students that actually need this as
"new" material.


* Translate concepts from one programming language to another
  ({Processing,Python} => Java).
* Choose an editor or IDE.
* Compile and run a Java program.
* Write a simple program in Java.
* Use and follow naming conventions for classes, variables, and constants.
* Write comments in a Java program.
* Create a variable with a type. :1012-transition:
* Create a `String` constant. :1012-transition:
* Concatenate one or more `String`s together. :1010:
* List primitive data types in Java. :1010:
* List ranges of primitive data types in Java. :1010:
* Use `long` literals in a Java program (with the `L` suffix).
* Use floating point literals in a Java program (with the `f` and `d` suffixes).
* Append primitive data types to `String` with the `+` operator. :1010:
* Decide the type of the result of an expression between types (e.g., adding an
  `int` and a `double` result in a `double`). :1010:
* Use arithmetic operators in an expression. :1010:
* Declare and initialize A variable in a Java program. :1010: :1012-transition:
* Choose meaningful variable names. :1010: :1012:
* Define the terms "assignment operator", "left operand", and "right operand".
* List the order in which a statement is evaluated/executed. :1010: :1012:
* Decide which data type can hold a given value. :1010: :1012-transition:
* Write a method in a Java program. :1010: :1012-transition:
* Define the terms "method signature" and "method body".
* Call a method in a Java program. :1010: :1012:
* Call a method in a Java program using variables as arguments. :1010: :1012:
* Call a method in a Java program using literals as arguments. :1010: :1012:
* Declare and initialize a "global" variable in a Java program.
* Declare and initialize named constants in a Java program. :1010:
  :1012-transition:
* Get input from the keyboard in a Java program. :1012-transition:
* Get *tokenized* input from the keyboard in a Java program.
* Convert `String` values into numeric types with parsing functions.
* Convert between types by casting values. :1010: :1012: :1012-transition:
* Compare and contrast prefix and postfix use of the `++` and `--` operators.
* Use shorthand increment and decrement operators (`+=`, `-=`, `++`, `--`).
  :1010: :1012:
* Use boolean operators in a program. :1010: :1012-transition:
* Use relational operators in a program. :1010: :1012:
* Compare `String` values with the appropriate comparison method. :1010:
  :1012-transition:
* Explain why using relational operators in `boolean` types is discouraged.
  :1010:
* Use conditional statements in a program. :1010: :1012: :1012-transition:
* Use looping structures in a program. :1010: :1012: :1012-transition:
* List the order of execution in a C-style `for` loop. :1010: :1012-transition:
* Use `break` and `continue` statements in a loop structure.
* Use the "escape character" to encode special values in a `String` literal.
* Use `String` methods. :1010: :1012:
* Use the `Math` library. :1010: :1012:
* Use language-specific documentation to find more information about
  language-specific library functions/methods. :1012:
* Declare, initialize, and use an array. :1010: :1012-transition:
* List limitations of arrays in Java. :1010: :1012-transition:
* List the default values of elements in an array in Java. :1010:
  :1012-transition:
* Initialize an array with an array literal. :1010: :1012-transition:
* Determine the length of an array. :1010: :1012-transition:
* Copy an array. :1010: :1012-transition:
* Explain what happens if you use the assignment operator on array values.
  :1010: :1012-transition:
* Use a "foreach"-style loop in Java. :1012:

### Week 3: OOP Basics 1

* Define the terms OOP, Object-oriented programming.
* Explain how *types* and *classes* are related to one another.
* List the properties of a class (name, instance variables, instance methods).
* Distinguish between a class definition and an instance of a class.
* Declare, initialize, and use instances of a user-defined class.
* Declare, define, and call instance methods that operate on instance variables.
* Explain what the `this` keyword represents in an instance method.
* Write a `toString` instance method for a class.
* Explain the purpose of a constructor method.
* Write a constructor method for a class in Java.
* Define the term "default constructor".
* List access modifiers that can be applied to instance variables/methods in
  Java.
* Explain how different access modifiers change the visibility of an instance
  variable/method.
* Choose an appropriate access modifier for instance variables and methods.
* Define the term "encapsulation".
* Explain how access modifiers enable to you apply the principle of
  encapsulation.
* Explain why encapsulation is useful.
* Define the terms "accessor" and "mutator".
* Explain why accessors and mutators are necessary.
* Decide *if* accessors and mutators are necessary for an instance variable.
* Compare and contrast class variables and methods with instance variables
  and methods.
* Decide if a method or variable should be defined as instance or class.
* Call class methods defined in a different class.
* Give an example of a class variable in the Java standard library.
* Give an example of a class method in the Java standard library.
* Give an example of an instance method in the Java standard library.
* Write comparison instance methods for a class.

### Week 4: OOP Basics 2

* Decide if a type is an "Object" or not an "Object".
* Compare and contrast the behaviour of references to objects and primitive
  types.
* Write a method to create a copy of an instance of an object.
* Define the term "immutable".
* Explain what actually happens when an instance of an immutable object is
  modified in Java.
* Compare and contrast a "shallow copy" and a "deep copy".
* Decide when to use a shallow copy, and when to use a deep copy.
* Draw a diagram that shows the state of references given a piece of code.
* Write and call a method that takes a reference as a parameter.
* Explain what happens when an instance of an object has no references to it in
  Java.
* Write a class with user-defined types as instance variables.
* Write a class that has an instance variable with its own type (a `Person` that
  has a `Person` instance variable).
* Decide how changing a value in one scope affects the value in another scope.
  (passing references vs passing values)
* Write and use a "list" class to represent a collection of values.
* Explain how using a "list" class can be better than using an array.

### Week 5: Multidimensional arrays

* Give an example of multidimensional data.
* Declare, initialize, and use a multidimensional array in a Java program.
* Draw a diagram representing the state of references in a multidimensional
  array.
* Define the term "ragged" array.
* Declare, initialize, and use a "ragged" array in a Java program.
* Write a class that has a multidimensional array as an instance variable.
* Create "useful" instance methods for a class.
* Write a simple, manual testing method for a class in a separate file.

### Week 6: File I/O and exceptions

* Define the term "Exception".
* Give examples of exceptional code, and the corresponding `Exception`.
* List information that an exception gives a programmer.
* Create and use an instance of an `Exception` (explicitly *not* `throw`-ing).
* Compare and contrast `Exception` and `Error`.
* Explain why instances of `Exception` are not `return`-ed from a method.
* Create an instance of `Exception` and `throw` the instance.
* Explain what happens when the `throw` keyword is used in a program.
* Decide if an `Exception` should be handled in a `try`/`catch` block, or if an
  exception should be rethrown by marking the method with `throws`.
* Catch one or more types of exceptions in multiple `catch` blocks.
* List the order of execution of statements in a `try`/`catch` block.
* Explain the purpose of a `finally` block.
* Use a `finally` block in a Java program.
* Compare and contrast checked and unchecked exceptions.
* Use language-specific documentation to determine the kinds of errors that can
  be generated by a standard library.
* Explain why catching `RuntimeException` is a bad programming practice.
* `import` the appropriate package to use a specific type of `Exception`.
* Read a file line-by-line in a Java program (`FileReader`, `BufferedReader`).
* Manually tokenize lines in a file with the `String#split` method.
* Read a file with a tokenizer in a Java program (`Scanner`).
* Write a program that handles opening a file that does not exist.
* Write a program that reads a complete file into memory as a 2-dimensional
  array of `String`.
* Write a file line-by-line in a Java program (`FileWriter`, `PrintWriter`).
* Create an instance of a `File` object in a Java program.
* Explain the purpose of a `File` object in a Java program.
* Use the `JFileChooser` class in Java to get an instance of a `File`.
* Use C-style format codes in Java to format a string for output.
* Read and write binary data in a Java program.

**Note**: What are we getting by showing the students `FileReader` first, then
explaining how it's not meant to be called directly, then showing them more
abstractions that wrap `FileReader`, like `BufferedReader`?

### Week 7: OOP Polymorphism 1

* Give a real-world example of subtypes/specialization. (person -> {student,faculty})
* Create and use a "subclass" in a Java program.
* Define the terms "subclass"/"derived class", "superclass".
* Draw a diagram of a simple class hierarchy.
* Explain how a subclass affects a superclass.
* Write a superclass/subclass pair with multiple, non-default constructors.
* Explicitly call the constructor of a superclass in a subclass constructor with
  the `super` keyword.
* Explain what happens when a superclass and subclass implement a method with
  the same signature.
* Write a subclass that overrides the behaviour of a superclass.
* Call a method in the superclass with the `super`-dot-notation.
* Describe the scopes of two instance variables in subclass and superclass that
  have the same name.
* Explain how visibility modifiers affect the relationship between subclass and
  superclass.
* Decide if a subclass can call a method in a superclass given its visibility
  modifier.
* Write methods and declare instance variables in a superclass that subclass
  cannot call or use (`private`).
* Write methods and declare instance variables in a superclass that a subclass
  may call or use, but code *outside* the hierarchy cannot use. (`protected`).
* Explain the relationship between the type defined on the left side of an
  assignment operator and the type on the right side of an assignment operator.
  (Subclass can be assigned to superclass, but not vice-versa).
* Cast an instance of a superclass to a subclass.
* Check the type of an instance with the `instanceof` operator.
* Safely cast an instance of a variable.
* Describe the relationship between `Object` and all other class instances in
  Java.
* List the methods that are inherited from the `Object` class.
* Define the term "polymorphism".
* Given a class hierarchy and code fragment, decide which method in the class
  hierarchy would be called.
* Write a Java program that uses polymorphism.
* Define the term "abstract class".
* Write an abstract class in a Java program.
* Explain how polymorphism is related to the concept of abstract classes.
* Use a library in a Java program to draw graphics. (specifically refers to
  `StdDraw`, but processing could probably fit in here)

### Week 8: OOP Polymorphism 2

**Note**: Week 8 is marked specifically as "Object hierarchies - example". My
interpretation of this is that we shouldn't be getting any new outcomes here,
just examples of how to apply outcomes from week 7.

* Decompose a domain model into a hierarchy of related classes.
* Draw a diagram representing related classes in a hierarchy.
* Decide which class in a hierarchy of classes should have a property.
* Create and call a constructor in an abstract superclass.
* Decide which class in a hierarchy of classes should have a behaviour.

### Week 9: Strings, ArrayLists

* List and use more `String` class instance methods.
* Create and use instances of the Java-specific `ArrayList` class.
* Use the Java-specific "generics" implementation.
* Compare and contrast arrays and `ArrayList` (or, more generally, the `List`
  interface).
* Use Java-specific wrapper classes for primitive types.
* Define the terms "boxing" and "unboxing" with relation to wrapping primitive
  types in classes.

### Week 10: Linked lists

* Define the term "list".
* Give examples of lists.
* List properties of lists (insertion/deletion time, access time, etc.)
* List properties of arrays (contiguous memory allocation, fixed size, etc.)
* Create and use a linked list data structure in a program.
* Write a method to add a node to the top of a linked list data structure.
* Write a method to iterate over the nodes of a linked list data structure.
* Write a method to insert a node in an arbitrary position of a linked list data
  structure.
* Write a method to delete a node from a linked list data structure by key or by
  index.
* Write a method to do an ordered insert on a linked list data structure.

### Week 11: Recursion

* Give an example of a recursive function.
* Write a recursive implementation of the factorial function.
* Define the terms "recursion", "stack overflow", and "base case".
* Draw a diagram representing the state of a stack of method calls in a
  recursive function.
* Create a recursive solution to a problem.
* Write a recursive solution to a problem with a "helper" function.
* Write a recursive program to generate permutations of a sequence.
* Write a recursive program to generate all subsets of a sequence.
* Give an example of when recursion is not an appropriate solution to a problem.

### Week 12: Searching and sorting

* Define the term "searching".
* Give examples of search algorithms for arrays/lists/sequences.
* List the data requirements for a binary search algorithm to be useful.
* Write a linear search method.
* List the properties of a linear search algorithm, including run time.
* Describe the binary search algorithm.
* Write an iterative method that implements the binary search algorithm.
* Write a recursive method that implements the binary search algorithm.
* Compare and contrast linear search and binary search.
* Measure the performance of an algorithm based on the size of input (average
  case and worst case).
* Compare and choose an algorithm based on performance measured in big-O
  notation.
* Decide when to use a binary search vs a linear search.
* Write a method to perform an ordered insertion in an array.
* Measure the performance of an ordered insertion algorithm with big-O notation.
* List sorting algorithms and their performance with big-O notation.
* Describe the insertion sort algorithm.
* Implement the insertion sort algorithm for an array of integers.
* Describe the selection sort algorithm.
* Implement the selection sort algorithm for an array of integers.
* Describe the recursive merge sort algorithm.
* Describe the quick sort algorithm.
* Explain why choosing a poor pivot reduces the overall performance of the quick
  sort algorithm.

### Week 13: Advanced sorting, review

**Note**: Advanced sorting is in the week 12 lecture notes. No new outcomes are
derived for review classes.
