COMP 1500
=========

Calendar entry:

> An introduction to the topics of Computer Science and problem solving.
> Students will learn concepts in computer programming.

Sources of information
----------------------

* Jim's COMP 1500 textbook
* Me
* Gord Boyer (taught in Fall 2019)
* Al Marshall (currently teaching)

Tasks
-----

* [ ] Extract learning outcomes from own slides
* [ ] Confirm learning outcomes from Jim's course
* [ ] Contact Gord

Course objectives
-----------------

COMP 1500 is more tricky to nail down with course objectives that go beyond the
calendar entry. The original idea with COMP 1500 is that the individual
instructor could add their own personal interpretation for what computer science
is.

With that in mind, here are the course objectives from when I taught the course
with Gord:

* Learn how computer science is not just computer programming.
* Represent information digitally.
* Learn how computers function, at a low level.
* Apply problem-solving skills.
* Use and evaluate algorithms.
* Implement abstractions as software.
* Apply computer science concepts to domain areas.

Learning outcomes
-----------------

### Introduction

* Explain what computer science is.
* Explain the etymology of the word "computer".
* Label all of the components of a Turing machine.
* Given a Turing machine and tape, evaluate the output of a Turing machine.
* Label all of the components of a von Neumann machine.
* Classify contemporary computer components to the von Neumann architecture.
* List at least four areas of theoretical computer science.
* Distinguish the terms computer from computation.
* Represent properties about an object.
* Represent relationships between objects.
* Define the term "abstraction".
* List abstractions from the real world.
* Identify the *interface* between abstractions in the real world.
* Describe a problem in terms of inputs, outputs, and instructions to solve.
* Provide an example of an important historical figure in computing and explain
  the contribution that person made to the field.


### Representing information digitally

* List at least 3 different [digital numeral systems].
* Convert numbers between [digital numeral systems].
* Explain how *switches* can represent complex information.
* List and define the terms: "Bytes" and "nibbles".
* Represent text as numbers.
* Explain the how "data standards" are important to facilitate communication.
* Explain how an image can be stored digitally.
* Encode an image (black and white, grayscale, and colour) digitally and by
  hand.
* Explain how formats and encodings are important for communication.
* Predict how an animation might be stored digitally.

[digital numeral systems]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radix

### How computers function

* Evaluate Boolean expressions.
* Draw a truth table for a Boolean operator (e.g., XOR).
* Evaluate arithmetic expressions in binary (e.g., addition).
* Explain how logical operators can be implemented as a circuit with switches.
* Translate circuits into logical expressions.
* Explain how logical operators can be implemented as a circuit.
* Draw a circuit diagram for a logical expression.
* Draw a half-adder.
* Show the state of parts of a half-adder circuit.
* Draw a full-adder.
* Explain how half- and full-adders work.
* Find errors in a circuit.
* Translate a plain-English problem into a flow diagram.
* Translate a boolean expression into a circuit.
* Predict the output of a circuit given specific inputs.
* Determine the purpose of a circuit (limited to arithmetic).
* Explain how a circuit can make a decision.
* Explain why abstractions are necessary to hide complexity.
* Define the term "ALU".
* Explain the purpose of an ALU in a CPU.
* Define the term "opcodes".
* Define the term "assembly language".
* Explain why using an assembly language is preferable to using binary to
  issue instructions to an ALU.
* Define the term "memory" in terms of computing.
* Give a physical example of temporary memory (i.e., pencil and paper).
* Compare and contrast primary memory and secondary memory.
* List kinds of data that can be stored in memory.
* Explain how memory can be addressed.
* Explain the difference between memory and registers (physical location).
* Explain how data is moved from memory to registers.
* Define the term "control unit".
* Explain the purpose of a control unit in a CPU.
* Explain how a control unit can be instructed on what to do.
* Define the term "sequential programming".
* Write a simple, sequential program in a simple assembly language (including
  I/O, conditional and unconditional branching).
* Describe the relationship between Turing machines and the von Neumann
  architecture.

### Apply problem-solving skills

* Define the term algorithm.
* Divide a big problem into smaller steps.
* Search for a piece of data with at least 2 different search algorithms.
* Compare and contrast linear search and binary search.
* Decide whether or not a computer can solve a problem.
* Explain how run-time complexity is used to measure the "goodness" of an
  algorithm.
* Rank searching algorithms by run-time complexity.
* Sort information with at least two simple sorting algorithms.
* Measure the complexity of two simple sorting algorithms.
* Compare and contrast P and NP.

### Implement abstractions as software

* Find errors in a program in a simple programming language.
* Rewrite a plain-English solution as a program in a simple programming
  language.
* Define the term "high-level language".
* Compare and contrast "high-level programming languages" and "assembly
  languages".
* Explain the purpose of a "compiler" in a high-level programming language.
* Create a simple, sequential program in a high-level visual programming
  language (e.g., Scratch), including variables, Boolean expressions,
  conditional statements, looping structures, custom blocks (functions), I/O,
  and random numbers.
* Describe the relationship between conditional and unconditional branching and
  conditional statements/looping structures.
  
### Topics in CS

#### Bioinformatics

* List the four chemicals in DNA.
* Define the terms "base", "codon", "protein", "gene", "genome".
* Give examples of what genes express (structure, signals).
* Give examples of what a microbiologist is interested in studying, and explain
  why a microbiologist cannot study those things manually.
* Define the term "sequencer", and "assembly".
* Describe the sequencing process at a high level.
* Describe "reference-based assembly".
* Find the optimal alignment of a read to a genome, by hand.
* Determine the consensus sequence for a genome given a pileup in a
  reference-based assembly.
* List the limitations of "reference-based assembly".
* Describe "de novo assembly".
* Define the term "graph" in terms of "nodes" and "edges".
* Define the term "de Bruijn graph".
* Explain how a de Bruijn graph can be used to solve the de novo assembly
  problem.
* Draw a de Bruijn graph for a specific set of reads for a specified value of
  $k$.
* Build a consensus sequence for a given de Bruijn graph.
* Describe a sequence alignment algorithm.
* Define the term "dynamic programming".
* Fill in a dynamic programming table for an alignment algorithm
  (Needleman-Wunsh).
* Extract the optimal alignment for a pair of sequences from a dynamic
  programming table.
  
#### Cryptography

* Define the term "cryptography".
* Give examples of when cryptography is used.
* Define the terms "plaintext", "cipher", "ciphertext", "encryption",
  "decryption", "shared secret cryptography", "public key cryptography",
  "cryptanalysis", "brute-force analysis", "one-time pad".
* Encrypt and decrypt a message with a Caesar cipher.
* Determine the key for a ciphertext given only the ciphertext by frequency
  analysis.
* Explain why brute-force analysis is not a generally reasonable solution to
  decrypting a message.
* Compare and contrast the search space of the Caesar cipher with a one-time
  pad.
* Compare and contrast "pseudorandom" and "truly random" numbers.
* Compare and contrast shared secret cryptography with public key cryptography.
* Briefly explain the process of public key cryptography.

#### Artificial intelligence

Focusing on artificial neural networks.

* Identify the parts of a neural network given a diagram.
* Explain how a neural network is trained.


