COMP 1010
=========

Calendar entry:

> An introduction to computer programming using a procedural high level language.

Sources of information
----------------------

* Jim's textbook
* Heather Matheson (taught in Fall 2019)

Tasks
-----

* [X] Contact Heather 2020-01-07
* [X] Extract outcomes from Jim's book.
* [X] Extract course objectives from Jim's book.
* [X] Extract learning objectives from shared course material.
* [ ] ~~Put learning objectives into a database.~~
* [ ] ~~Organize objectives into categories.~~

Course outcomes
---------------

What are the major objectives for a student taking this course?

1. Gain basic programming skills by writing programs using ~~the Processing~~ a
   structured programming environment. :program:
2. Describe basic programming concepts and constructs in plain English.
   :communicate:
3. Get a better idea of how we communicate ideas in a way that computers can
   understand and act on. :represent:
4. Begin to think abstractly by visiting algorithms *before* coding them.
   :abstract:

Learning objectives
-------------------

### Section 1: Getting started

#### Unit 1: Introduction

* Explain to a layperson what computer programming is. :communicate:
* Calculate how many operations a computer can perform each second based on its
  specifications :represent: :not-evaluated:

#### Unit 2: Processing and Programming Basics

* Choose and set the canvas size for your programs. :processing: :program:
* Set the location where shapes are drawn on the canvas. :processing: :program:
* Set the background, outline, and fill colors of your canvas and shapes.
  :processing: :program:
* Draw lines, circles, ellipses, triangles, and points. :processing: :program:
* Insert in-line and block comments to describe your program. :program:

What might be missing, or more general learning outcomes:

* Write a simple program.
* Run a simple program.

#### Unit 3: Variables and Integers

* Create a new integer variable and give it a unique name.
* Store information into a variable (e.g., the number 10).
* Get information out of a variable. :ambiguous:
* Create a variable and give it an initial value in one line of code.
* Create multiple variables in one line of code.
* Add, subtract, multiply, and divide integers.
* Get the remainder when dividing two integers.
* Apply order of operations to figure out the result of a calculation.
  :prerequisite: :high-school:
* Use the built-in `println` command to look inside variables for investigating
  your errors, debug your program. :processing:
  
What might be missing, or more general learning outcomes:

* Debug simple errors by inspecting the value of variables.
* Use a variable in an expression.
* Use arithmetic operators in an expression (add, subtract, multiply, divide,
  modulus).
* Explain the purpose of the modulus operator.

#### Unit 4: Coding Style and Standards

* Choose meaningful variable names that make your code more readable.
* Create *named constants* that cannot change once set, as a safety feature.

What might be missing, or more general learning outcomes:

* Explain how named constants can be used as a safety feature.
* Identify values that should be represented as a named constant.
* Use named constants in a program.

#### Unit 5: Active Processing

* Create an active program that can change while it is running. :processing:
* Create animations where the drawing changes as time passes. :processing:
* Use the mouse location as input to your program. :processing:
* Calculate which of two numbers is larger or smaller. 

**Note**: An "active program" here is **not** loop structures. Instead, we're
using features of Processing. Processing *itself* has a timer that calls
functions with specific names repeatedly. The students are not aware that a loop
is being used behind the scenes here. Note also that the outcome "Calculate..."
is not covered in the text of this unit.

What might be missing, or more general learning outcomes:

* Use a "global variable" in a program to maintain state across function calls.
* List the *special* function names that are used in Processing. :processing:
* Explain the purpose of the special function names used in Processing.
  :processing:
* Explain the order of operations in the execution of a Processing program
  (which functions get run in what order, when global variables are initialized,
  etc.). :processing:

### Section 2: Programming Basics

#### Unit 6: User Defined Functions Part 1

* Create your own user-defined functions.
* Use your custom functions within other functions.
* Use your custom functions to avoid repeating code.
* Apply the top-down technique to solve problems.

What might be missing, or more general learning outcomes:

* Explain what happens when a function is called/describe or explain how code
  flows when a statement is reached that calls a function.
* Define the term "scope" in terms of variable visibility when declared *within*
  a function.
* Determine the visibility of a variable declared in a program.
* Define the term "local variable".

#### Unit 7: Real Numbers - Floats

* Create variables to store real numbers.
* Work with real numbers, e.g., do basic math operations.
* Do basic trigonometry to help with graphical calculations. :prerequisite:
  :high-school:
* Use shortcuts for addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and modulo.
  :ambiguous:
* Get the canvas size from new global variables. :processing:

What might be missing, or more general learning outcomes:

* Use real numbers in an expression.
* Explain the difference between integers and real numbers.
* Determine if the result of an expression is an integer or a real number.
* Use built-in trigonometry functions in an expression.
* Explain how floating point numbers are limited in a computer program.
* Use compound assignment/arithmetic operators (i.e., `+=`, `++`).

#### Unit 8: Text in Processing: Strings

* Create variables to store text data, called `String`s.
* Combine multiple `String`s together.
* Convert between `String`s and numerical data.
* Get the length of a `String`, as an integer.
* Create a character variable.
* Get a specific character out of a `String`, from a specific index.

What might be missing, or more general learning outcomes:

* Explain what the empty `String` is.
* Draw text on the canvas. :processing:
* Explain why number types cannot be assigned to `String` types, and vice-versa.
* Explain how numbering starts with indexes (at 0).
* Use `String` methods.
* Call *methods* on an **object**.

#### Unit 9: Data Types and Memory

* Make integer or floating point variables that use more or less memory.
  :ambiguous:
* Convert between data types using explicit and implicit casts.

**Note**: section 9.2 is marked as "Advanced" and explains bits and bytes at a
low(er) level, an introduction to number systems. Includes the definition of a
bit, nibble, byte, then explains prefixes (mega, giga, tera).

What might be missing, or more general learning outcomes:

* Demonstrate integer overflow.
* Choose an appropriate number type to represent a value.
* Explain why explicit casting is required.
* Explain what happens to numeric data when explicit casting is applied.

#### Unit 10: True and False - Booleans

* Create boolean variables and store `true` and `false` in them.
* Use boolean variables in `if` statements to have conditional programs: actions
  that depend on a boolean test.
* Use `else` blocks to have code run when a condition is not true.
* Perform basic boolean operations, the `not`, `and`, and `or` operations.
* Use nested `if` statements, when one conditional is inside another.

What might be missing, or more general learning outcomes:

* Use global variables `mousePressed` and `keyPressed` to inspect state.
  :processing:
* Evaluate logical expressions.
* Explain how variable scope is affected by nested blocks.

### Section 3: Advanced Constructs and Background

#### Unit 11: Advanced Conditionals

* Compare numerical values, and see if they are equal, or if one is larger than
  the other.
* Compare booleans to see if they are equal.
* Combine boolean and relational operations to complete complex tasks.
* Compare `String` data, to see if two strings are equal.
* Construct if-else-if chains.

What might be missing, or more general learning outcomes:

* Explain why using relational operators on boolean types is discouraged.
  Specifically, why you should prefer `if(x)` instead of `if(x == true)`.
* Explain why floating point numbers should not be compared for equality using
  relational operators.
* Explain how logical expressions can be "short-circuit"ed.
* Use short-circuit expressions in a program.
* Explain why `if` statements without curly braces should be avoided.

#### Unit 12: Loops

* Create a `for` loop to repeat an operation on a fixed number of items.
* Create a `while` loop to repeat an operation while some condition is true.

What might be missing, or more general learning outcomes:

* Write code that repeats execution with a loop control structure.
* Choose the appropriate loop control structure for a given problem.
* List the order of operations of a `for`-loop control structure.
* Figure out where a program crashed based on a stack trace. :processing:
* Calculate how many times a `for` loop executes.
* List the order of operations of a `while`-loop control structure.
* Use a `do`/`while` loop control structure in a program.
* Explain how loop blocks affect scope.
* Identify common problems encountered when writing loop control structures.

#### Unit 13: Advanced Loops

* Use loops to solve a wide range of problems. :ambiguous:
* Create a nested loop to iterate two variables over a range of values.

What might be missing, or more general learning outcomes:

* Use a boolean variable to indicate that an event has happened. State
  management.
* Write code that uses nested loops.
* Use nested loops to solve a problem.
* Identify when a nested loop should be used to solve a problem.
* List the order of operations of a nested loop structure.
* List the state of variables in a nested loop structure.
* Calculate how many times a statement will execute in a nested loop structure.

#### Unit 14: User Defined Functions Part 2

* Create a function to take one or more parameters.
* Create a function that returns data.
* Have one function call another function. :duplicate:
* Apply top-down programming to simplify and solve complex problems. :duplicate:

What might be missing, or more general learning outcomes:

* Explain why global variables are an inferior way to change the behaviour of a
  function.
* Explain how a function parameter is assigned a value. :ambiguous:
* Explain how scoping rules apply to function parameters.
    * More specifically: explain how different functions may have the same
      parameter name.
* Explain how providing a value to a function call *copies* the value to the
  function.
* Explain the purpose of the `return` keyword.
* Explain that returning data *copies* the value back to the caller.
* List the order of statement execution when a function is called.
* Use stub functions to help break down a solution into smaller parts.
* Iteratively build a string by appending characters to the empty string.
* Choose an appropriate initial value for an accumulator variable.
* Choose when to use global variables and when to use local variables.
* Define the term "side-effects", in relation to functions.
* Explain why functions that have side-effects should be avoided.

**Note**: We're talking about and giving examples of functional decomposition,
but I'm not sure if we're expecting students to be able to *practice* this yet,
or just make observations about how it's done. That is: are we expecting them to
be able to "Identify if existing code can be decomposed further", or are we
expecting them to be able to "Decompose a problem into functional units"?

#### Unit 15: Compiling and the Java Virtual Machine

* Describe the work flow that your computer takes, going from your Processing
  code, to a computer program running on your computer. :processing:

What might be missing, or more general learning outcomes:

* Define the term compiler.
* Explain the purpose of a compiler.
* Compare and contrast high level languages and machine language.
* List the limitations of a compiled language.
* Define the term "Virtual machine".
* Explain the purpose of a virtual machine.
* Compare and contrast virtual machines and compiled code.
* List the limitations of virtual machines.
* Define the term "source code".
* Explain what happens to "source code" before the program starts running on a
  computer.

**Note**: Some information in this chapter is strictly not true: "Clear examples
of this in daily life are Windows-based and Mac-based machines, they speak
different languages" -- macOS and Windows both run on x86, so they speak the
same language. You have to invoke a different spell on each before the code
actually runs... But that's so deeply technical that they don't need to know or
worry about that yet.

### Section 4: Arrays

#### Unit 16: Array Basics

* Create an array with any data type and size.
* Store data in an array, and retrieve data from it.
* Iterate through arrays with a loop.
* Get the length of any array.
* Initialize an array with literals.

What might be missing, or more general learning outcomes:

* Give an example of why arrays are useful.
* Define the term "array".
* Use an array in a program.
* List the limitations of an array.
* Distinguish "declaration" from "instantiation".
* Compare and contrast `String` and arrays.

#### Unit 17: Arrays and Memory

* Determine the default value stored in your arrays immediately after creation.
  :processing:
* Use and compare variables against `null`.
* Copy an array.
* Compare an array.

What might be missing, or more general learning outcomes:

* Explain how arrays differ from primitive types in terms of where in memory the
  values are stored.
* Define the term `null`.
* Distinguish `null` from the empty string.
* Explain why arrays must be copied and compared with loops.

#### Unit 18: Arrays and Functions

* Use arrays as parameters to functions.
* Use arrays are return types from functions.
* Create a new array inside a function.
* Modify the data in an array in a function.

What might be missing, or more general learning outcomes:

* Explain why arrays as arguments behave differently than primitive variables.

#### Unit 19: Working With Arrays: Techniques

* Implement a count-as-you-go partially-filled array.
* Implement an impossible-value partially-filled array.
* Implement linear search on an array.
* Implement binary search on an array.

What might be missing, or more general learning outcomes:

* Use a "pointer" value to indicate where in an array the next value should go.
* Use a "sentinel" value to indicate which elements in an array are unused.
* Define the term "sentinel" value.
* Choose an appropriate sentinel value for a problem.
* Explain the limitations of partially-filled arrays.
* List strategies for overcoming the limitations of partially filled arrays.
* Give an example of when linear search might be useful.
* Explain the linear search algorithm in plain-English.
* Explain the limitations of linear search.
* Give an example of when binary search might be useful.
* Explain the binary search algorithm in plain-English.
* Explain the limitations of binary search.
* Measure the complexity of linear search and binary search.
* Compare and contrast linear search and binary search.

### Section 5: Additional Notes

**Note**: All learning outcomes in section 5 are explicitly not part of the
course material.

#### Unit 20: End of the Course

None listed.

#### Unit 21: Introduction to Objects

* Build composite data types as classes.
* Create an instance of a class.
* Change the values of data in an instance of a class.
* Pass an instance of a class to a function.
* Explain how using classes is an improvement over not using classes.

#### Unit 22: Introduction to Java

* Begin using an IDE to write Java programs.
* Write a simple Java program.
* Get input from the keyboard in a Java program.

#### Unit 23: Using Processing in Java

* Use Processing as a library in a Java program.

### Assignments

#### Assignment 1

* Create and run a simple, sequential program that uses named constants and
  variables and produces output.
* Create and run a simple, sequential program that responds to input.
* Create and run a simple, sequential program that contains *prescribed*
  user-defined functions. Students are explicitly **not** asked to decompose a
  problem. User-defined functions accept no parameters and do not return data.
  
#### Assignment 2

In addition to learning outcomes from assignment 1:

* Decompose a *structured* problem into user-defined functions. Students are not
  provided with function names. User-defined functions accept not parameters and
  do not return data.
* Decide how much functionality belongs in a user-defined function.
* Use conditional statements with complex logical expressions in a program to
  modify behaviour based on input.
* Use trigonometric functions and random numbers to generate vectors in a game.
* Apply a simple collision detection algorithm to objects in a program.
* Use file-scope variables to track the state of a program.
* Write code that adheres to programming standards.
* Use complex conditional statements with `else` and `else if` blocks.

#### Assignment 3

In addition to learning outcomes from assignment 2:

* Write a program that uses nested looping structures. May be a combination of
  `for` and `while`.
* Use an unfamiliar function in a program by finding and understanding
  language-specific documentation.
* Write a program that uses complex nested structures, combining loops and
  conditional statements.
  
#### Assignment 4

In addition to learning outcomes from assignment 3:

* Write user-defined functions that accept one or more parameters of primitive
  type variables.
* Write user-defined functions that return data.
* Use integer arithmetic, casting, and modulo in an expression.
* Use sentinel values to communicate exceptional state.

#### Assignment 5

In addition to the learning outcomes from assignment 4:

* Create and use an array.
* Use "parallel" arrays to contain compound information for a single entity.
* Write user-defined functions that accept one or more parameters of both
  primitive and array type variables.
* Implement a linear search algorithm over an array.
* Use a "partially filled" array. Track the state of a "partially filled" array
  with a "pointer".
* Write a function that treats a parallel array as a set. (no duplicates)

### Exams

#### Term test

* Compare and contrast variables and named constants.
* Identify if a provided code snippet has an error, and explain what the error
  is.
* Evaluate simple arithmetic expressions by hand, including predicting the
  correct data type.
* Evaluate the execution of a simple, sequential program.
* Identify the correct declaration of a function from a list of potential
  function declarations.
* Evaluate complex logical expressions with logical and relational operators.
* Evaluate the execution of a complex conditional control structure.
* Evaluate the execution of string methods.
* Evaluate the execution of a complex expression with relation to order of
  operations and operator precedence.
* Write a simple, sequential program with arithmetic expressions.
* Write a simple, sequential program that uses named constants, file-scoped
  variables, and integer arithmetic.
* Write a simple function that accepts no parameters and returns no data.
* Write complex conditional structures.
* Use file-scope variables to manage state.
* Explicitly cast the result of an expression to a data type with a smaller
  range.
* Use functions from the Processing standard library *without* supporting
  documentation. :processing:
* Represent colours using the RGB model.

#### Final exam

* Evaluate the execution of a *Processing* program, visually, and by hand.
* List the order of operations of "global variables", `draw()`, and `setup()` in
  a Processing program.
* Evaluate simple arithmetic expressions by hand, including predicting the
  correct data type.
* Write a statement that completes a program, that includes an arithmetic
  expression.
* Write a statement that declares a boolean variable and initializes it with the
  result of a complex logical expression.
* Write conditional statements around existing blocks of code that satisfy some
  logical constraint.
* Rewrite a `while` loop as a `for` loop.
* Evaluate the execution of a looping structure, by hand.
* Use `String` methods in a statement to isolate and print specific characters.
* Evaluate complex expressions that include typecasting and `String` appending.
* Translate a math formula into a function.
* Evaluate the execution of a complex program with multiple functions.
* Iterate over an array of data and accumulate a result.
* Create, initialize, and use an array in a program.
* Write a function that works with a partially filled array.
* Write code that compares `String`s for equality.
* Write a simple, sequential program with arithmetic expressions, variables,
  and function calls.
* Use functions from the Processing standard library *without* supporting
  documentation. :processing:
* Use file-scope variables to maintain state of a program.
* Write a program that would draw provided images if the code were to be
  executed in the Processing environment.
* Identify when to use typecasting in an expression.
* Choose the appropriate data type for a variable.
* Write a program that handles user input.
* Write a program with conditional control structures.
* Write a program with complex logical expressions.
* Write a program with nested `for` loops.
* Write a program that generates random numbers.
* Complete a function that treats a `String` as a set.
* Convert between `String` types and number types.
* Write functions that accept parameters and return data.
* Use integer arithmetic and modulus in a program.
* Write a function that accepts arrays as parameters and returns an array.
* Write a program that uses parallel arrays.
