Goals for today:

* [X] Think about how to do *equivalencies* (i.e., if a learning objective from
      COMP 1010 and COMP 1500 are effectively equivalent, how do I represent
      that?).
* [ ] Capture which learning outcomes are *not* included in the new course.
* [X] Get the colouring to work on the COMP 1000 course outcomes, too.
* [ ] Simplify the `Makefile`, it's pretty messy right now and I think can be
      simplified now that I'm pretty much doing all courses the same way.
          
---

Thinking more about custom tags, I thought about a few things, including hacking
on `pandoc` itself to support custom readers (maybe interesting to look at
later), but decided that probably the best/easiest thing to do is use existing
link syntax (e.g., `[]`), but have a prefix like `@` or `%` to indicate
different things, like equivalencies. I think I should also do this for
`\nameref` too, since I'm effectively rewriting `\nameref` before it even hits
the LaTeX parsing.

Let's use `*` (dereference) and `=`, so `[*objective-id]` will be replaced with
the text in that ID, `[=objective-id]` will have the course objective linked to,
but no text.

The Pandoc AST doesn't give us instances of `pf.Link` when I use that notation,
so I have to drop down to matching patterns in strings again. That's OK.

The remaining thing that I need to figure out with equivalencies is how to
actually get them to show up. Right now they're written out as `(equiv
COURSE#id)`, but that's not very nice looking.
