Goals for today:

* [ ] Figure out how to merge the files that I put together for each of the
      courses in a way where I can pull learning objectives from different
      courses.
      
I'm continuing to work on this today. I think my solution is going to be:

1. Compile the three documents separately with no TOC, but apply two changes:
    1. Pull the `title`, `author`, and `date` metadata out into its own elements
       **outside** of the `header` tag.
    2. Shift all remaining subheadings (e.g., `h1`, `h2`, etc) to become one
       level deeper (e.g., `h2`, `h3`, etc)
2. Merge the documents together again and add a TOC.

We have access to all metadata in `prepare`. In the `action` function, the
metadata is not yet put into the `header` field yet -- when I dump all of the
`pf.Header` elements, the actual title of the document isn't printed. The same
is actually true for the `finalize` function. So `pandoc` itself must take the
metadata and put it into that block at the beginning.

OK, dang. I don't need to remove that metadata, I should just dump out the HTML
doc *without* the `--standalone` flag, then it renders the doc as an HTML
fragment...

    pandoc COMP1020.md -o COMP1020.html -F ./yamltitletoheaders.py
    --shift-heading-level-by=1

I'm not sure if it's best to go `.md` -> `.html` (concat) -> `.pdf` or do `.md`
-> `.md` (concat) -> `.pdf`, let's test.

Going `.md` -> `.html` -> `.pdf` loses the TOC as links and loses the colouring
that's done in `tag.py`. I think I need to do two things here:

1. Go `.md` -> headerless `.md` -> `concat.md` -> {pdf, html}
2. Separate the colouring of tags out of the script that I wrote.
