Goals for today:

* [ ] Capture which learning outcomes are *not* included in the new course.
* [ ] Simplify the `Makefile`, it's pretty messy right now and I think can be
      simplified now that I'm pretty much doing all courses the same way.
* [X] Add an approximately equal to reference.
* [ ] Get the approximately equal to to use `&asymp;` in HTML output and
      `\approx` in LaTeX.
          
---

I think for the course equivalencies thing, I'll write out a simple `=` with a
link to the course, and some `alt` text indicating what it is. Good enough for
now, it doesn't distract from the learning objective in place.

---

Minor bug: when there's a link in an outcome that I'm copying, the link
*doesn't* get copied (e.g., the ppm link in COMP1500#encode-an-image). That's
happening because I'm doing `pf.stringify`. What happens if I *don't* stringify
and just drop the element in there?

The links work. The main issue is that I've got duplicate stuff in here now,
with a `span` nested within a `span`. The `span` nested in a `span` is OK, I was
duplicating the `outcomes` attribute in the outer `span`. I removed the
`outcomes` attribute, and dumping the entire element in there works *good*!

---

I'm at a point where I want to have an "almost equivalent to" tag. For example,
the COMP 1500 objective "Write a program that conducts arithmetic, moving data
between registers and memory" is *approximately* equivalent to the COMP 1010
objective "Use an IDE to write and run a simple, linear program using a
procedural programming language." They are not equivalent to each other, but
they are approximately equivalent to each other. This was straightforward!

---

I've now got a rudimentary skeleton of a course put together that does what I
want. The remaining structural components are things like showing which IDs from
courses *haven't* been referred to.
