Goals for today:

* [ ] Deal with duplicate IDs and outcome tags for COMP 1020. (Unfortunately I
      made this hard on myself and this will apply to literally every learning
      objective...)
* [X] Rewrite the colouring script to use the more structured input provided by
      the native spans and attributes.
* [X] Rewrite the group by outcome script to use the structured input provided
      by native spans and attributes.
* [.] Prepare a pipeline that will merge the three courses into a single
      document.
    * [X] Set up the `Makefile`
    * [ ] Get the group by outcome part into the pipeline
    * [ ] Add more colours so that we can include COMP 1500.
* [ ] Start using the `\nameref` idea to put learning objectives into a new
      course.

---

The group by outcomes script is complete, but it is **slow** (takes about 20
seconds to run on one course). It's slow because I'm making a `deepcopy` of each
of the `pf.ListItem` that I'm collecting so that I can strip the metadata
attached to it when it gets dumped out at the end of the file. It's an
acceptable speed for now, I guess. :/

---

Now I'm looking at the colouring script. This was the *original* script that I
wrote, so it's a big mess! (It includes the "group by outcome" functionality).

This script still doesn't look very *pretty*, but I'd consider it to be
significantly more reliable than it was before, futzing with formatted strings.
I *could* go even further and separate the two branches out (html and PDF), but
I don't intend to support any more formats than that, so I'm just halting here.
Good enough.

---

The pipeline is *mostly* there. The remaining bits for this are:

1. I'm not doing the "group by outcome" thing yet
2. When I add COMP 1500 to COMP 1010 and COMP 1020, I run out of colours, need
   to find more.
