Goals for today:

* [X] Decide how to proceed: How am I going to represent tags and IDs so I can
      actually use them in both HTML and PDF, and so I can make references to
      them across documents?
* [X] Automate converting existing learning objectives with tags and IDs into
      native spans with attributes.
      
Yesterday I worked through a few different possible ideas:

* LaTeX `\label` and `\ref`. Rejected because it's pure LaTeX and won't work
  with HTML.
* Pandoc [example lists]. Rejected because Pandoc handles them internally before
  exposing its AST, so there's no obvious way to refer to them across documents,
  and they don't link together in LaTeX output.
* Attributes in Pandoc (using native spans and curly-brace attributes, `*
  [Learning objective]{id=this tag=that}`. This was attractive because it makes
  the metadata actually structured in a way that plain text isn't, no matter how
  I render the plain text. I think I can also do the `\nameref` thing with a
  filter in both HTML and LaTeX.
* Restructuring text. This is the most work, basically extracting IDs out to
  become headers in the documents.
  
[example lists]: https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#numbered-example-lists

After giving some more thought, I think the way forward is to use attributes.
Moving ahead with attributes is not preventing me from restructuring text later
if I feel that's a better approach, and I *think* I'll be able to do the
`\nameref` thing in both HTML and LaTeX output.

I'll set up one more experiment to try that out, then start the tedium of
reorganizing tags.

Testing out attributes and `\nameref`:

* The filter that I wrote `nameref.py` works on arbitrary elements with an ID
  with HTML output.
* I can *link* to the ID in LaTeX, but `\nameref` doesn't work, it just renders
  `??`.
    * Looks like the `id` attribute on a native span doesn't give it a `\label`
      in LaTeX with pandoc, but instead writes it out as a `\hypertarget`.
    * In LaTeX, a *header* with an ID field gets a `\label`.
    * I can add my own `\label` to arbitrary elements in LaTeX with a filter,
      see `tagattribute.py`.

Here's what I'm going to do going forward:

1. Use attributes, changing `* Learning objective :tag#id:` into `* [Learning
   objective]{id=id tag=tag}`
2. Do the document merging that I described in days past, collecting COMP 1010,
   COMP 1020, and COMP 1500 into a single document.
3. Use the `\nameref` LaTeX command to build up the learning objectives for the
   new course(s).
   
---

I don't need to do the tedious work of manually converting all of my learning
objectives into this format, I should just use pandoc!

I'm going to write a filter that finds `pf.ListItem` that contain strings that
look like or contain `:[a-z#-]:` (the format that I've used for tags+IDs). Then
I'm going to rewrite those `pf.ListItem` to be `pf.Span` with attributes.

I've got a script `tags-to-attr.py` that will strip the formatted tags from
instances of `pf.ListItem`. Now I need to *replace* the first instance of
`pf.Plain` with `pf.Span` and add the tags as attributes.

I'm getting stuck here with Panflute: I'm trying to straight-up replace an
instance of `pf.Plain` in a `pf.ListContainer` with an instance of `pf.Span`,
but I'm getting rejected because it says that the element is expecting an
instance of a `pf.Block`.

I think I need to step back and see what pandoc sees when I run a list item
with a native span through it.

It's not what I thought! What I expected was that I could just replace
`pf.Plain` with `pf.Span`, but `* [thing]{attr=this}` is structured as:

    ListItem(Plain(Span(..., attributes=)))

The `pf.Plain` *contains* the `pf.Span`.

OK. I've got it working(!) with some minor issues:

1. There's trailing whitespace in the output, I think this is from when I
   replace the content with the empty string.
    * On further inspection, this is more likely to be word wrapping applied at
      80 columns, the trailing `]{#...` is fairly long.
2. The leading YAML metadata is missing from the top of the document.
3. When I have multiple tags and IDs on a single learning objective, only the
   last element is kept.
4. The links are now inline. That's not a serious issue, but annoying, because I
   prefer reference links.
   
Goal for tomorrow: Deal with the multiple ID issue.
