Goals for today:

* [ ] Decide how to proceed. Should I keep trucking on with tags/IDs as part of
      the same unit? (i.e., should I stick with the syntax `:outcome#id:` or
      should I separate them into `:outcome: #id`?) Should I just use LaTeX
      `\ref` and `\label`?
      
Let's try some stuff out.

LaTeX `\label` and `\ref`
---------------------

LaTeX `\ref` and `\label` are easiest to try. I want to know a few different
things:

1. What does it look like when I render them as HTML? Do they show up at all?
   * When I render them as HTML (see `latex-ref-label.md`), they don't show up
     at all.
2. What does Pandoc use to represent them in its own AST? Are they easier to
   extract than plain text?
   * When I export the JSON AST, the `\label` and `\ref` fields show up as
     `RawInline` elements, just with the pure LaTeX dumped into it. This also
     explains why it doesn't show up in the HTML writer, since the "type" field
     is `tex`, so I guess it would only get rendered by the `tex` writer.
3. LaTeX renders subitems more correctly to what I want than example lists does.

Filtering for these in a pandoc filter would be *way* easier than what I'm doing
now, trying to extract plain text by format. This could work.

Example lists
-------------

Reading through the pandoc docs, I found that there's a structure called
"[example lists]". The example that's shown in the docs *approaches* what I'm
interested in getting.

1. What does it look like when I render them as HTML?
   * They show up, they are rendered as `(1)`, `(2)`, etc.
2. What about *multiple* lists of "examples"? Are they all `(1)`, `(2)`? Can
   the examples be distinguished from one another?
   * Separate lists are just continued lists, if the first list ends at `(3)`,
     then the next list starts at `(4)`.
   * Nested/sub lists are also sequential, so item `(5.1)` is rendered as `(6)`.
3. What does Pandoc use to represent them in its own AST? Are they easier to
   extract than plain text?
   * The labels are gobbled up before being emitted as JSON, they never reach
     that stage. The references are emitted *as the references themselves*, so
     the output actually contains `(1)`, not some internal identifier.
   * The AST contains `Example` and `TwoParens` as types for the `OrderedList`
     that is generated, but that's the only thing that tells us it's an example
     list.
     
Compared to the pure LaTeX approach, we actually get something out of pandoc
that resembles what I want, and it works in HTML. The issue that I have is that
pandoc does not emit something that I feel is very flexible. The big downside
here is that when I render the example lists in LaTeX, pandoc doesn't emit
linking between the examples and their references. Since it's already hard-coded
in the AST, I can't even write a filter to make references to them.

[example lists]: https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#numbered-example-lists

Pandoc attributes
-----------------

I can mostly keep my text the same, but use pandoc attributes on native spans.
For example, I can keep the structure of my text mostly the same, but wrap
*every* learning objective with square brackets and put custom attributes at
the end of each.

```md
Programming Basics
------------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [Use an integrated development environment (IDE) to write...]{tag=program
   id=write-and-run}
```

I like this approach because it minimizes the number of changes that I have to
make to the documents that I've already written. It's exceedingly tedious to
have to go through and wrap every single list item with square brackets, and
reformat the tags/IDs, but that's survivable.

The truly nice part about this approach is that the metadata that are tags and
IDs are now *truly* metadata: they don't appear in the output as part of the
body. They are now also *structured* metadata, so I can significantly more
easily programmatically determine if there is a tag or ID on something.

Restructuring text
------------------

Another idea that I had while looking for options is to restructure my text a
little bit: Instead of having lists of single-sentence objectives for each unit
with a tag/ID, each unit has *subheadings* with the ID, then a description of
the objective. For example, in COMP 1010 we might have

```md
Learning Objectives
===================

Programming Basics
------------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

### Write and run a program

Use an IDE...

Variables and Integers
----------------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

### Use variables

* Declare and use a variable in a program to represent information.
* Initialize a variable using a literal value

### Write and evaluate arithmetic expressions

* ...

```

The benefit of this is that I get to do what I want, refer to the section by ID,
and I can use things like [pandoc-crossref]. I also get *numbered* references if
I want. The `nameref` package would really let me do what I want (embed the name
of the section in the output), but that would basically just be moving to LaTeX
only output.

The main drawback is that I have to restructure my courses *again*. Is that a
problem? It's not a huge problem. Annoying, yes.

Another drawback is that the headings add a lot of noise to the document --
where I had numbered lists of objectives for the sections, I now have many
subsections. This may force me to write more detailed learning objectives to
make it appear less busy, but is that a problem?

OK, so I wrote a pandoc filter in `nameref.py` that basically does the
`\nameref` LaTeX tag, but for HTML output. Nice.

[pandoc-crossref]: https://lierdakil.github.io/pandoc-crossref/

Moving forward
==============

The two real contenders here I think are [Restructuring text] and [Pandoc
attributes]. Example lists don't work for me because the references are
hard-coded in the AST and doesn't really help me with tags. Pure LaTeX `\label`
and `\ref` don't really work for me because it's not portable to HTML.

[Restructuring text] is the most work, and *still* doesn't really help me with
the tagging thing. The main benefit of restructuring is that I get real numbers
for my sections. With the help of the `nameref.py` filter I wrote, I can use the
LaTeX `\nameref` tag to build up a new course by referring to sections/IDs in
other courses.

[Pandoc attributes] is significantly less work, more tedium. In terms of
genuinely separating metadata from content, it's the winner. I *think* that
means that I can effectively reproduce what the `\nameref` command is doing, but
I have to write my own scripts to do that.

I can't decide which is the best approach right now. For tomorrow.
