Goals for today:

* [ ] Figure out how to reorganize scripts to get them to work on the merged set
      of learning objectives.
      
As of last time, I was able to get the files merged together, but now I'm in
this state where I can only really generate HTML and not PDF because the scripts
that I've written do too much.

Right now the file `tag.py` does the following jobs:

1. Collect the tags on the learning objectives,
2. Collect the IDs on the learning objectives,
3. Format and colour the tags and IDs,
4. Produce a "colour map" of the tags at the top of the file,
5. Produce lists of learning objectives organized by course outcome.

The `Makefile` I've written takes each individual course file and renders it
back out as an HTML file, then merges all of the files together. The main
problem with this is that all colouring information is lost when you go from the
final, merged HTML file to PDF.

To get this to work for both HTML and PDF, I think I need to:

1. Separate out the colouring part into its own script that gets run as a last
   step in producing the final output (`colour.py`).
2. Separate out the tag/ID collecting part into its own script that gets run
   once for each file (`tag.py`).
3. Use the following approach for rendering:

```
pandoc COMP1010.md -o COMP1010-tagged.md -F tag.py -F yamltitletoheaders.py --shift-heading-level-by=1
pandoc COMP1020.md -o COMP1020-tagged.md -F tag.py -F yamltitletoheaders.py --shift-heading-level-by=1
pandoc COMP1500.md -o COMP1500-tagged.md -F tag.py -F yamltitletoheaders.py --shift-heading-level-by=1
pandoc COMP1010-tagged.md COMP1020-tagged.md COMP1500-tagged.md -F colour.py -o
COMP1000.html --standalone --toc --toc-depth 2 -M 'title=COMP 1000' -M date=2020
-M 'author=Franklin Bristow'
```

This should get back to having coloured output for both HTML and PDF.

I'm having two problems:

1. When I copy the learning objective to the bottom list in the output Markdown
   file, the next stage then considers those to *also* be learning objectives,
   even though they're really just duplicates.
2. When the learning objective tag/ID is written back out, the `#` symbol gets
   escaped at some point, so we get tag/IDs that look like `tag\#id`. That's
   *probably* happening in Pandoc itself.
   
To solve 1, I was trying to remove the offending text by copying the tag/ID
`pf.ListItem`, then removing the tag/ID text with `replace_keyword`, but that
didn't actually work? Might be that most list items have *two* tags, especially
in 1020. Yes, that and I have to explicitly do a `deepcopy` of the object, not
just a `copy`.

I think I need to write the `action` function to step up and look at
`pf.ListItem` instead of `pf.Str`.
