Goals for today:

* [X] Remove trailing whitespace from the transformed output
* [X] Ensure YAML metadata is still in the document
* [X] Deal with multiple tags and IDs
* [X] Try to handle inline links

Removing trailing whitespace was fairly straightforward. I also worked out that
I can use a `pf.Space()` to replace the text of the tag in the element, then
trim them later by removing all trailing instances of `pf.Space` from the plain
text element.

---

Inline links is handled by two writer options `--reference-links` and
`--reference-location=section`. The complete command that I'm running is:

    pandoc COMP1010.md -f markdown-auto_identifiers --reference-links \
    --reference-location=section -o COMP1010-attr.md -F tags-to-attr.py

The `-auto_identifiers` part strips the auto-generated IDs on the otherwise
unnumbered section headings.

---

For multiple tags and IDs:

1. If a learning objective has multiple tags, that's totally fine, and I should
   just embed those into the output.
2. If a learning objective has multiple IDs, that's not fine. I need to either
   pick one or write a new one.
   
Tags are handled, they're just written out as space-separated values in an
attribute.

Learning objectives with multiple IDs will have to be handled manually, there's
no automated solution here. The real issue is that if I have more than one ID,
then I've actually got more than one learning objective. I may be listing those
more specific learning objectives as sublists, I should move the tag/ID to the
more specific objective.

The script I wrote will flag multiple IDs, then it's up to me to figure out how
to better represent the ID and outcome for the specific learning objective.

---

The YAML block: the default markdown template for pandoc doesn't even *have* a
YAML section. I might be able to deal with this using shell commands (e.g.,
`grep '^\-\-\-$' COMP1010.md`). Ok, thanks, Google. I can use `sed`:

    sed -n '/^---$/,/^---$/p' COMP1010.md

I'll write a small script that wraps both the `pandoc` command above with the
`sed` script to rewrite the file in its entirety.

The bash command that I can use for this is:

    cat <(sed -n '/^---$/,/^---$/p' COMP1010.md) <(pandoc COMP1010.md \
    d -f markdown-auto_identifiers --reference-links \
    --reference-location=section -F tags-to-attr.py -t markdown) > \
    COMP1010-attr.md
