Goals for today:

* [ ] Figure out how to merge the files that I put together for each of the
      courses in a way where I can pull learning objectives from different
      courses.
      
You can do a simple merge together of documents with `pandoc` by just passing
more than one file as input:

    pandoc COMP1010.md COMP1020.md -o COMP1000.pdf
    
The approach has a couple of problems:

1. The YAML metadata block that defines things like the title is repeatedly
   overwritten until we get to the last file (e.g., the example above gets the
   metadata block from `COMP1020.md`).
2. `pandoc` seems to blindly concatenate the files together, I'm not sure that
   there's an idea of separate documents in the model. When I run the merged
   documents through panflute, I get only one document. That means that when I
   dump out the objectives at the end, I get objectives for all courses.
   
I'm trying to compile each file separately (from Markdown to HTML):

    pandoc COMP1010.md -o COMP1010.html --standalone
    pandoc COMP1020.md -o COMP1020.html --standalone
    pandoc COMP1010.html COMP1020.html --standalone -o COMP1000.html

That *almost* works. Pandoc warns of many duplicate IDs because headers are
written with IDs, and I'm using the same headers across both files. The title is
still only placed at the top (that makes sense, I guess), but the authors in
each file are appended (i.e., "Franklin Bristow" appears twice at the top of
the file as an author, then once again in the middle where the second document
appears).

It looks like I can override document metadata with the `-M` flag on `pandoc`,
that will let me specify the document title instead of taking on whatever the
last document has. I still want to be able to use the metadata blocks in each
file as a "separator" or something, where I've got sections and section titles,
etc.

I *think* that the problem with this is that `pandoc` may just discard the YAML
blocks that it encounters, and doesn't include them in the AST that gets
generated. When I run `pandoc -t json` and look at the output from multiple
files, the titles that I would expect to be there aren't present. Yeah, the
`meta` entry in the JSON object only has entries from the last file. Filters
don't see the AST until after `pandoc` has emitted JSON.

I'm thinking that the right solution is to do a two step approach:

1. Compile each file individually, but with a filter that changes the "title
   block header" to be just regular headers, and increases the default heading
   level by 1 (use `--shift-heading-level-by=1`). I'll also apply the "tag"
   filter here.
2. Compile the files together, using the `-M` flags to specify the metadata that
   I want for the complete document.
   
