Goals for today:

* [ ] Capture which learning outcomes are *not* included in the new course.
* [ ] Simplify the `Makefile`, it's pretty messy right now and I think can be
      simplified now that I'm pretty much doing all courses the same way.
* [X] Get the approximately equal to to use `&asymp;` in HTML output and
      `\approx` in LaTeX.
* [ ] Get in contact with COMP 2XXX instructors to find out their expectations
      for students coming out of COMP 1020 to ensure that the course I design
      meets those expectations.
          
---

Using the right symbol in both LaTeX and HTML is gold plating, but it feels
nicer either way.

---

How should I approach figuring out which learning objectives are missing?

1. The `prepare` phase can basically be left empty -- I want to walk through the
   entire document tree anyway, so there's no point in writing a `walk` in that
   function.
2. I'll need to collect some info in the `action` phase. In the COMP 1000
   objectives I'll need to collect:
   
   1. The learning objectives that were used as the source (the ones that are
      directly being referenced).
   2. The learning objectives that are equivalents or approximately equivalent.

   These are the learning objectives that have been used.

   In the other courses, I'll need to collect *all* learning objectives by ID,
   organized by course. These are *all* learning objectives, where I'll do the
   set difference from.
   
   I should gather the unique IDs for all objectives.
3. In the `finalize` phase I will do the set differences, then write out all of
   the missing IDs in course sections. I should make and ID a specific section
   in the COMP 1000 course where these will be inserted, since it's going to be
   in the middle of a big document.

I'm going to have to change the way that I'm writing the references out,
especially the equivalences. Right now, the only thing I have in the references
to get the ID back out is the `href` in the link. I'm wrapping the entire
element that I'm linking *to* in a `pf.Span`, so I should just put those values
directly into the `pf.Span`. That should also simplify looking for the "used"
objectives.

OK, that was fairly straightforward.

Getting the IDs out, once structured, is straightforward. The set arithmetic is
then also straightforward (thanks, Python!). The problem now is that I've got a
`set` of IDs that are sorted alphanumerically (uh, after I `sorted` them), they
no longer have information like what course they were from, or what unit they
were originally in. That *might* be OK -- when I go through the IDs at the end,
I'm going to have to pull the entire element back out, much in the same way that
`nameref.py` works. When I get to that point, it *should* be straightforward to
get things like sections back out, so I *should* be able to rebuild those
structures. I'll have to keep all of those things floating around in memory
until I actually get to the point of writing it out.

Instead of just keeping IDs in a `set`, I'm keeping the entire element in a
`dict` when I find one with an ID. In `tags-to-attr.py` I am writing the course
number, too, but it's trivial because I can get it out of the document metadata.
No matter which script I put the "search for the closest header" to find the
unit, it's going to be a search of finding parents *until* you find a header, so
for now just stick it into `missing.py`.

No. The lists are not *inside* the headers. The headers are sibling nodes to the
`pf.OrderedList` elements.

OK. I can find the nearest header, so now I've got a structure of a dictionary
of dictionaries of lists, courses > headers > objectives.

Now I can dump out on `pf.debug` the structure that I'm looking for. Awesome.
The only limitation of this is that the headers aren't sorted in the same order
that they're in in the source document. That's OK for now.
