Goals for today:

* [X] Start using the `\nameref` idea to put learning objectives into a new
      course.
* [X] Decide on the major sections for this course.
* [X] Decide on course outcomes for parts of COMP 1000.
    * [X] Part 1
    * [X] Part 2
* [ ] See if you can build footnote-like linking behaviour for learning
      objectives.

---

I have to figure out how I'm going to build up the course. I'll need a separate
file for the new course that doesn't get overwritten every time I try to render
it. I'm also going to have to put it into the existing courses.

Making a new file and concatenating isn't too tough, I just put it into the
recipe in the `Makefile`.

The main problem(?) now is that what I was previously expecting to be a
`RawInline` is now a `RawBlock`. When I was experimenting with using the
`\nameref` command, I got instances of `RawInline`, but now that I'm starting to
work within my own, I'm getting a `RawBlock` instead. It's not a showstopper,
but unexpected.

The `nameref.py` script that I've got right now just links to the other element
with the ID, but there's no way to get *back*. The behaviour that I think I want
is to be able to **go back** to where you were before, kind of like how the
footnote links work. For another time.

---

The major sections in this course (the headings) are *different* than what the
other courses currently have:

* The course I'm describing spans 2 terms, so there are two parts, let's just
  call them "part 1" and "part 2" for now.
* I want to show which learning objectives have been omitted from each of the
  other first year courses in a list. I'll need a section for this, plus a
  filter to actually collect **all** objectives and do set logic on them.
  Thankfully the actual set logic part is trivial with Python!

---

Course outcomes for COMP 1000 should closely match and cover the existing
courses that we have. In part 1, I want students to broadly be able to look at
computing from first principles to programming, then jump into the variety of
disciplines that are studied *within* computer science.

In part 2, I want students to be able to transfer their knowledge from part 1
into a real, text-based programming language (our assumption will be that they
have had *some* experience programming from part 1 or COMP 1012). We can move
fast because we're simply translating existing concepts into a different form
rather than trying to learn those concepts for the first time. I also want to
meet some of the learning outcomes from COMP 1020, and address any missing
objectives from COMP 1010.

Part 2 is where I'm really critically looking at COMP 1010 and COMP 1020. It's
unrealistic to think that we'd be able to do both COMP 1010 and COMP 1500 in the
first 3 credit hours of this course, so some of the programming skills can and
should be put into part 2. I think that *most* of COMP 1020 can still remain.

For what to take from COMP 1020, I think I need to consider what second year
courses (COMP 2080, COMP 2140, COMP 2150, COMP 2160) expect from COMP 1020. I
know what to expect for COMP 2160, but will need to ask people about the other
courses.
