Things for today:

* [ ] Fix the objective barcode so that it will build an objective barcode *per
      course* in the giant comp1000 file.
* [X] Figure out if I can do *anything* about Appendices between HTML and PDF.
* [X] Try to figure out how to get section numbering working correctly in the
      giant merged document with appendices (or how to selectively turn it off).
      
---

~~I don't know if there's any reasonable way for me to get a header to appear in
the HTML document *and* have it appear in the TOC without it appearing in other
outputs. My solution to this problem is to add to add a filter that only adds~~

My `Makefile` has two separate targets for COMP 1000, and since this is the only
course I need to care about the appendix stuff in, I'm just going to create two
separate files that get added on to the end of the document, one for `tex` and
one for `md`/`html`. That's way simpler than writing a custom filter to do this.

---

I need to turn off or **correct** section numbering in a few different places:

* The missing objectives sections
* The appendices

I wonder if I can do `--number-sections` with `-t markdown`...

Yeah, I can, in that the command runs and doesn't give me an error, but the
numbers aren't embedded in the output.

Now I wonder if I can insert my own numbers, adding `number` to the `attributes`
field of the header? Yes! I can!

That means I have some control over what's going to get put into it. The
difficult part is going to be making it *consistent* with the other course. Do
the number attributes show up in the AST? No.

The headers in the missing section are direct copies from the end document.
Internally, they're even the same object. I can tell because when I do edit the
number attribute, those entries are changed in both locations. So I think the
best approach would be to figure out how to restart numbering in the middle of
the document. I really don't want to go back to rendering the appendices as
html, then stitching it all together, it didn't work the way I wanted it to
before.

This part is harder than I think, I think. When pandoc takes a list of files,
I'm pretty sure it's effectively concatenating them all, then treating as one
giant file. So as far as filters and everything else are concerned, there's no
concept of separate files for us to place something in between...

I wonder if `doc` changes as we move between documents... No.

My current idea is basically when I get to the "Appendices" header, start
looking for "COMP XXXX". On finding "COMP XXXX", use that to find any `<h4+>`
that are not unnumbered, then number them starting at "XXXX.1". Let's just go
for it and see what happens.

Keep in mind that there *isn't* an "Appendices" header in the LaTeX output...
And the approach I'm thinking about using (modifying numbers) doesn't even work
in LaTeX, I would have to use the `setcounter` command again.

I think I need to give up on this, and instead either turn off numbering for
this course (sure?), turn off numbering after we get to the appendix (that's
actually possibly more straightforward, just find all headers after the
"missing" header and make them all unnumbered. Yeah, I think that's good enough
for now.
