Things for today:

* [.] Get the document ready to share.
    * [X] Move around the intro outcomes throughout the second unit.
    * [ ] Flesh out "Ideas for instruction" in all units, or remove it.
    * [ ] Confirm that you're OK with all missing outcomes.

---

I spent *way* more time today trying to figure out how to get the `nameref.py`
script to do "recursive" referencing, but I feel like it's in a place where it
works the way I want it to work. This script has a lot of state and special
cases that it deals with:

1. An outcome that it needs to copy.
2. A reference that's added to a copied outcome.
3. A reference that's been added by an outcome that was copied.
4. A reference that's added to a hard-coded outcome.

I found bugs in the little function I wrote to copy elements (they were left
dangling with no parent document, but I was able to resolve that).

I have not yet finished inserting the outcomes that I had written out yesterday.

---

I *think* I'm in a state where the outcomes have been shuffled appropriately, so
that the "review" part is actually fairly small, and students learn about what
they need as they move through the course instead of all upfront.

---

OK, so let's step through outcomes that I'm explicitly not referring to and see
if I can explain *why* I don't refer to them.

All explicitly processing related objectives can be effectively ignored.

Using the modulus operator, when do we actually need to be able to use the
modulus operator? Testing for evenness and oddness, divisibility. Is there
anything in this course that **requires** the use of mod? In a first year
course, other than "they should know this", I can't think of any real concrete
example of what you would use mod for.

I explicitly do not think it's important for students to be able to identify
syntax errors that are written down on paper. The development strategy that
modern computing enables is fundamentally different from the lengthy write then
run of punchcards and shared computers.

Named constants fit in with sentinel values, so I can put that in with writing
functions. I'm left with "constants as a safety feature" and "comparing
constants to regular variables". Constants as a safety feature is really just a
side-effect of constants, not a use of constants (I don't think?). Comparing
them to regular values is literally "this can't change", I think it's implied
by using them.

Next is function related stuff. Identifying a syntactically correct function
signature was something that was on a test. I don't really agree with the
assessment, this should be evaluated by them *writing* something.

Tracing the execution of user-defined functions I think might be related to
writing them, the ability to trace it is interrelated with being able to write
it in the first place. At the same time, this is something that's more in-line
with writing the programs in the first place, in the first half of the course.
Likewise, the term "local variable" and scoping should be part of the first
programming unit.

Determining the visibility of a variable in a function -- what's being
evaluated is "given this code, does it work or is it visible?" Is that something
you need to explicitly evaluate? You need to be able to understand scoping rules
in order to use variables in functions. Putting that into the first programming
unit feels weird because the visual nature of scratch explicitly communicates
where something is visible -- it's literally in a box.

Using the right "size" of variable is an optimization that's really irrelevant.
This could be considered to be part of 2160. Casting is necessary, though.

Declaring and using boolean variables: most of the course is focusing on
expressions. Using `boolean` variables might actually be better part of classes,
attributes of classes that are true or false.

String comparison could be put into the string part.

Short circuiting -- that's tricky. I feel like that's as much a party trick as
anything else. Nested logical structures accomplishes the same thing without
being tricky.

I haven't explicitly put in nested `else if` anywhere. I actually didn't have
Java conditionals or loops at all! :(

Converting between for and while is a party trick. Evaluating the execution of a
loop structure is kind of the same thing as evaluating loops, it's implied by
being able to successfully write a loop.

Nested looping structures could actually be useful for file parsing, so I'm
going to stuff that in there. Likewise with the accumulator pattern.

The JVM stuff is kind of irrelevant to me, it's discussed in 2160.

Now we're onto the use of parallel and partially filled arrays. I feel like
partially filled arrays is "let's not talk about lists" and parallel arrays is
"let's not talk about classes". The thing that I do think might be useful (but
where?) is the use of a "pointer" as an idea. Is it useful? Where is it useful?
When working with partially filled arrays, of course. Does it lend itself to
better understanding how memory works? I don't really think so.

Onto 1020 -- recursive implementation of binary search -- maybe useful as an
exercise.

Compiling on the command-line is a one-off thing that I think could just be
tossed -- they'll do that in 2160 extensively.

Now I'm at the "review" in 1020 section and I have a bunch of equivalent 1010
things. I guess I should go back and change the references from 1010 to 1020 in
1000.2.
