Things for today:

* [X] Get the document ready to share.
    * [X] Flesh out "Ideas for instruction" in all units, or remove it.
    * [X] Confirm that you're OK with all missing outcomes.

---

When I last left this, I was feeling frustrated about the COMP 1020 "review"
outcomes, thinking that I should go through and turn them into `*` references to
COMP 1010 outcomes. I don't think I need to do that anymore. Instead, I'm going
happy enough with the `=` references, but I am going to go through and remove
the *IDs* on those outcomes so that they don't show up as "missing", it's enough
to cover them in the 1010 context. So basically: anything that has an
`[=comp1010]` is going to be reverted to *no* ID.

OK, cool. That's done.

---

`ArrayList` -- maybe that's useful as part of the discussion on data structures?
Yes.

---

Alright: I think I'm satisfied with the way that the course is currently
organized. There are a couple of things that I think could be shuffled around:

1. "Computer science: what even is it?" -- in COMP 1500 this is actually closer
   to or at the end of the course. I decided to put it up front because I think
   it drives home what I really want from the course, but it might be limiting
   to have it there in that we haven't yet talked about abstractions and
   representing information. This topic could be moved further back, or it could
   be a topic that's just spread throughout the course instead of in a single
   unit.
2. Some of the units in the second half of the course feel pretty jam packed.
   The second half has fewer units (6) -- each unit could be spread over 2
   weeks, pretty easily. The first half has some units that are less jam packed
   and some that are, and a weird number of units (9). Some of the units would
   have to be over two weeks, others might be single classes.

---

I'm taking out the "Ideas for instruction" for the second half of the course,
it's basically COMP 1010/1020 -- people know how to teach that course.

---

I rewrote some of the course outcomes at the beginning to better reflect what
I've actually got in the units of the second half.

---

I'm going to take a look at the files for the other courses, but I think I
should send this to the curriculum committee tomorrow.

OK, COMP 1020 files aren't getting dereferenced. I think I need to change the
`Makefile` to specialize on 1020, closer to what 1000 does. Done. The `Makefile`
looks kinda yucky now, but... whatever. This `Makefile` isn't going to be used
for anything else.
