Things for today:

* [.] Get the document ready to share.
    * [o] Separate 1000.2.1 into multiple subsections, this is the "do real
          programming section". In 1020 I separated this into units.
        * [ ] Separate into sections
        * [X] Add equivalencies in 1020 from 1010.
            * [X] Add the equivalencies. 
            * [X] Fix the script that adds the equivalencies.
    * [ ] Flesh out "Ideas for instruction" in all units, or remove it.
    * [ ] Confirm that you're OK with all missing outcomes.
* [X] Build a Python module with supplementary panflute utilities.
* [X] The Python scripts are painfully slow. Make them faster.

---

Thinking on the slow scripts thing, the slowness is definitely related to deep
copying elements. I get the feeling that the slowness might be related to the
property of a `pf.Element` having a reference to `doc`?

[Stackoverflow] claims that pickling is faster than `deepcopy`. Let's give it a
try. It definitely is about twice as fast (~30s vs ~60s). Panflute also has a
way to convert objects to JSON, let's try and see how that works out. Not
trivially, apparently, the `pf.dump` function expects an entire `Doc`.

[Stackoverflow]:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39028978/copying-nested-custom-objects-alternatives-to-deepcopy

---

As I'm adding equivalencies between 1010 and 1020, I'm left wondering about one
thing: should I use the same machinery that I'm using for 1000? That is: should
I just straight-up use the `[*` syntax for these things?

Part of my concern here is that now that I've IDed the objectives, I've got a
bunch of objectives in the "missing" section that are duplicated. I either need
to manually apply the transitive relationship, or just use the `[*` syntax to
auto-write those outcomes for COMP1020.

---

More work on making things faster. Let's do this scientifically, time to build
COMP1000.html:

1. `copy.deepcopy`: 111 seconds, sha1sum:
   d7883583bd06b6951674911bcddfa21f513c3c4d
2. `pickle.loads`: 64 seconds, sha1sum: d7883583bd06b6951674911bcddfa21f513c3c4d
3. custom json: 18 seconds, sha1sum: d7883583bd06b6951674911bcddfa21f513c3c4d

Running with `-j4` is negligibly faster. The custom JSON approach basically just
steals what panflute's [`dump`] function is doing. The sticky thing here is that
when I'm copying a `pf.ListItem` (and this is **always** what I'm copying), the
`to_json` call on `pf.ListItem` explicitly only converts its *content* to JSON,
and doesn't convert *itself*, so I have to wrap the reloaded JSON into a
`pf.ListItem`.

I think the only other option here, to avoid serializing, is to use something
that resembles the `walk` function and rebuild the structure recursively. For
now, I'm happy with reducing time by almost 10x.

[`dump`]: http://scorreia.com/software/panflute/_modules/panflute/io.html#dump
