Things for today:

* [ ] Get the document ready to share.
    * [ ] Separate 1000.2.1 into multiple subsections, this is the "do real
          programming section". In 1020 I separated this into units.
        * [ ] Separate into sections
    * [ ] Flesh out "Ideas for instruction" in all units, or remove it.
    * [ ] Confirm that you're OK with all missing outcomes.
* [ ] ~~Replace repeated outcomes in 1020 with references to 1010.~~
* [ ] ~~Update `Makefile` to build 1020 with 1010 as a dependency.~~

---

I think the right approach is to use the referencing syntax in the COMP 1020
document. That means that I have to do a few different things:

1. Find the corresponding outcomes in 1010 and replace them with references in
   1020.
2. Update the `Makefile` to treat 1020 differently, since it will now depend on
   COMP 1010. It's going to have to more closely resemble COMP 1000.
   
No, now that I'm thinking even more about it, some of the outcomes are
explicitly not the same as 1010 -- in 1010 it's Processing-related, where in
1020 it's Java. I think what I need to do is just have the 1020 equivalencies
entered manually.

---

Let's try to get back to why I was even thinking about doing those things
anyway. I was going through the giant "intro to Java" unit, trying to organize
them better because it's like 40 outcomes. They match pretty closely to the
introductory unit in 1020, so I wanted to organize them in the same way. By
doing that, I realized that I need to better represent the 1020 outcomes.

---

OK. I've put the outcomes into sections. There's two problems:

1. The 1020 outcomes that I `*` referenced that themselves have `=` references
   are not evaluated recursively, so I have outcomes that have literal
   `[=comp1010---]` in them. I think I could solve this in the `nameref.py`
   script itself.
2. I don't *like* the way this looks, as a giant blob of 50 outcomes, even if
   they are separated into many different sections. It doesn't feel cohesive in
   the way the remaining units look. The "review" is a bunch of "programming"
   topics that are all somewhat unrelated (other than to be programming
   related).

I think that I don't like the way that it looks because I'm busy chasing the
idea of minimizing unused outcomes, especially since I just went through and
added IDs to those review things in 1020.

I think that I need to better evaluate what the *minimal* amount of Java
programming ability students need to have before we could start meaningfully
talking about, for example, implementing searching and sorting. Do they need to
know about input? Do they need to know about complex typing rules? Do they even
need to know about *strings*? Then I can put in relevant programming-related
learning outcomes when they are actually necessary or useful.
