Things for today:

* [X] Get the name ref script to add a "title" to referenced objectives in other
      courses to more quickly see what the equivalence is.
* [ ] Start putting objectives into the second half of comp 1000
* [ ] Fix the objective barcode so that it will build an objective barcode *per
      course* in the giant comp1000 file.
* [ ] Fix the "required by" thing, it's dumping them out as comma-separated
      numbers.
* [ ] Fix the TOC in HTML -- this may be a bug in pandoc, though.
      
---

OK, so I thought it would be easy to just use the `title` attribute on a link to
get it to show the text for the target, but Firefox doesn't seem to want to do
it... I have this vague memory of using the `title` attribute to do that. Maybe
I'm only thinking about images and `alt`? No, it works the way I want in
Chrome... It's fine, I'll call it done.

---

I'm starting to put the objectives into the second part of COMP 1000. The very
first unit is the "review" unit in 1020. I think that I'm going to need to
revisit this and separate it into two units:

1. Purely knowledge transfer: you did this in Python/JS/Blocks, here's how you
   do literally the same thing in Java.
2. New techniques: you maybe *didn't* do this before, so let's take a look at
   the technique and see how to apply it.
   
Keep in mind that the review unit in 1020 is specifically marked as being 2
weeks long, so I think it makes sense to have more than one unit for these
things.

---

Something is broken! I need to get something else done, but want to commit this.
I am a bad person and I should feel bad.
