Things for today:

* [X] Fix the objective barcode so that it will build an objective barcode *per
      course* in the giant comp1000 file.
      
---

This *ought* to be as straightforward as inserting the barcode everytime we find
a new course (i.e., every time we find a header "Learning objectives"), but it
doesn't seem to be working that way in my favour.

Ok, so this is showing me even more issues with working with one massive
document and no clear concept of separation between documents:

I can find *a* place to put a barcode, but then it's not obvious what the
stopping point is for collecting the objectives is. For COMP 1000, I want to
insert the barcode at "Learning Objectives", but then when do I *stop*
collecting objectives? There's a pile of them at "Learning objectives not
covered in" (the `colour.py` script may not even see these...)

I could attach a classname to the course headers in the appendix section as a
flag to stop collecting tags. OK, I did that, but I'm getting weird side-effects
where some other unrelated elements are duplicated (e.g., Appendices and COMP
1010 titles).

The weird side-effects are coming from inserting elements in the middle. That
kinda makes sense, before I was only doing insertion at the end in the
`finalize` block, now I'm doing it within. I tried out appending instead, and I
think that actually does what I want it to do. So I think I can build up the tag
sequences and where they should be inserted in the `action` function, and do the
final insertion at the end in `finalize`.

That did it, nice.
