Things for today:

* [ ] Get the document ready to share.
    * [ ] Separate 1000.2.1 into multiple subsections, this is the "do real
          programming section". In 1020 I separated this into units.
        * [ ] Separate into sections
    * [ ] Flesh out "Ideas for instruction" in all units, or remove it.
    * [ ] Confirm that you're OK with all missing outcomes.

---

Ok, so we need to get students "programming in Java", this is genuinely required
by everything that follows, but what I want to reduce this to is "what's
minimally required in terms of programming in Java to then start 'Implementing
Searching and Sorting'?"

In order to do searching and sorting, we should minimally need:

1. Install and use the JDK and an IDE/text editor.
2. Write a simple "Hello, world" program in Java.
3. Declare and use variables, types can be limited to `int` types, we don't need
   to dig into floating point numbers yet.
4. Write functions that accept inputs and provide outputs.
5. Declare and use arrays.
6. Use conditional statements and loop control structures (implies the use of
   boolean expressions).
7. Get input, but limited to input with `Scanner` and `nextInt`.
   
This **should** be a straight "translate what you learned in the first half into
Java" -- nothing here is new from previous units. In fact, arrays could be
pushed *into* the next unit, where, in order to implement searching and sorting,
we need something to search and sort through.

After that, what's required to "represent complex information"? These are not
prerequisites, but should be introduced in the unit.

1. We're limited to whole numbers, let's talk about fractional numbers.
2. We're limited to numbers, let's talk about non-numbers (`String`)
3. We're limited to basic things, what about composite ideas? Classes.

Then getting lots of information, not prerequisites:

1. Fully expanding on use of `Scanner` to tokenize input.
2. Representing lots of information ($n$-dimensional arrays)

At the point of data structures, not prerequisites:

1. `static` variables may be useful here

At the point of recursion, there's nothing left!
