Things for today:

* [X] Fix the bug that I ran into last time.
* [X] Start putting objectives into the second half of comp 1000
* [ ] Fix the objective barcode so that it will build an objective barcode *per
      course* in the giant comp1000 file.
* [X] Fix the "required by" thing, it's dumping them out as comma-separated
      numbers.
* [X] Fix the TOC in HTML -- this may be a bug in pandoc, though.
* [ ] Figure out if I can do *anything* about Appendices between HTML and PDF.
* [ ] Try to figure out how to get section numbering working correctly in the
      giant merged document with appendices (or how to selectively turn it off).
      
---

The bug that I ran into yesterday was because I had a single list item with no
content, but I was trying to access the first element in the content. So now I
check if there is content before trying to access it.

---

The required by thing was broken because I was doing `", ".join("2160 2150")` --
I omitted a `split`. Added the `split`, looks good.

---

Trying to get the TOC to work I think is going to be trickier. There's a couple
of things that are actually broken with the TOC in HTML: The "Appendices" entry
in the TOC doesn't show up and the links aren't present on headers that I
inserted.

I notice now that the headers I'm inserting don't have IDs, *maybe* it's that
simple? Yes, that's exactly what it was.

The only remaining thing that's different between HTML and PDF TOC is that
"Appendices" appears in the TOC in PDF, but not in HTML.
