Things for today:

* [ ] When doing referencing, I should copy the enclosing `li`, not the `span`
      itself.
* [ ] Get the document ready to share.
    * [ ] Use the right kind of list items in all sections. At some point I
          started using `*` instead of numbers.
    * [ ] Separate 1000.2.1 into multiple subsections, this is the "do real
          programming section". In 1020 I separated this into units.
    * [ ] Flesh out "Ideas for instruction" in all units, or remove it.
      
---

I want to copy the enclosing `li` because many of the high-level objectives have
*sub* objectives that are nested lists.

Right now I'm matching on `pf.Plain`, so replacing that with a `pf.ListItem`
isn't going to work. The general strategy with panflute is that I need to match
the type of thing I intend to replace.

I've dealt with this once before, in `group-by-outcome.py`, but the difference
there was that I wasn't modifying the document while finding list items. This
time I want to replace a list item with a different list item.

So I need to change my strategy. I need to match on `pf.ListItem` where the
`pf.ListItem` contains the ID. Now that I'm looking at the code, that actually
*doesn't* seem too hard, since I'm using `pf.stringify` and then a regex to find
elements with the referred ID.

The tricky part is going to be handling the referenced IDs -- I'll need to
insert them into the top-level `pf.Span`, not after the `pf.ListItem`.

1. If the `ref_type` is `*`, then I want to make a copy of the `pf.ListItem`
   itself. There should only ever be one `*` ref_type, otherwise we're putting
   multiple references into a single list item and that doesn't make any sense.
2. After I make a copy of the `pf.ListItem`, I need to get a handle on the
   enclosed `pf.Span` that's being referred to.
3. Delete the ID on the enclosed `pf.Span` and append a link to the course.
4. For other reference types, I need to get a handle on the enclosed `pf.Span`
   and add a link to the course.
5. I need to add a "referenced-ids" field to the enclosed `pf.Span` so that the
   missing objective script picks it up
   
The script looks *ugly*, but it works now! Nice.

Er. It's not actually working... The `=` and `~` type references aren't getting
rendered. The "referenced-ids" are being populated correctly, but the links
aren't getting put in there correctly. For tomorrow.
