To do:

* [X] Get in contact with COMP 2XXX instructors to find out their expectations
      for students coming out of COMP 1020 to ensure that the course I design
      meets those expectations.
    * [X] COMP 2140
    * [X] COMP 2160
    * [X] COMP 2150
    * [X] ~~COMP 2280~~
    * [X] ~~COMP 2080~~

---

I got feedback from COMP 2140 and COMP 2150.

### COMP 2140

For COMP 2140, the assumptions/expectations for COMP 1020 students are:

* Use composition to build data classes (i.e., classes using other classes for
  data members).
* Describe the structure/idea of a linked list, but not necessarily implement a
  linked list.
* Familiarity with the idea of recursion, but not necessarily able to read,
  explain, or write recursive methods/functions.
  
I've asked for more feedback on file processing, algorithms, and complexity.

### COMP 2150

COMP 2150 isn't directly fed by COMP 1020. Instead, the path to COMP 2150 is
transitively through COMP 2140 and COMP 2160. I asked for feedback from COMP
2150 because of the heavy OO emphasis in COMP 1020. The feedback I received is
that students are assumed to be able to:

* Design and implement data structures (lines up with the expectation for COMP
  2140).
* Conduct automated testing on software (introduced in 1020, reinforced in
  2160).
* Use a build tool (not formally an objective in 1020, but is in 2160).
* Describe and use access modifiers to hide implementation details and apply
  encapsulation (introduced in 1020, reinforced in 2160, maybe 2140).
* Separate an interface from implementation (not formally an objective in 1020,
  but is in 2160).

The copy/paste objectives from 1020 are:

* Write a class and subclasses in Java.
* Use basic composition of classes as an alternative to inheritance.
* Use access modifiers to restrict access to methods and data in a class.
* Override behaviour in a subclass.
* Evaluate code that calls overridden methods.
* Implicit upcasting and explicit downcasting (safely, with `instanceof`).
* Use of and overriding the `.equals` method from `Object`, requiring that we
  take an `Object` as an argument and must use `instanceof` in the method body.

There is explicitly no expectation that abstract classes are part of the
curriculum, and are covered from scratch in COMP 2150.

### COMP 2160

Expectations for 2160 are:

* Write programs using a structured programming languages (e.g., conditional
  statements, loops, methods/functions, variables, types, user-defined types &
  classes, I/O on standard in and out).
* Build basic data structures (specifically a linked list).
* Write basic algorithms (searching and sorting).
* Write classes that hide implementation details from other classes with access
  modifiers (`private`).
* Write and use primitive, automated tests for software.

---

COMP 2080 and COMP 2280 are both winter term courses (along with COMP 2150), so
would not necessarily be direct dependencies. For now, I'm going to leave those
courses out of feedback, and focus on 21{4,5,6}0.
