To do:

* [X] Capture which learning outcomes are *not* included in the new course.
* [X] Simplify the `Makefile`, it's pretty messy right now and I think can be
      simplified now that I'm pretty much doing all courses the same way.
* [ ] Get in contact with COMP 2XXX instructors to find out their expectations
      for students coming out of COMP 1020 to ensure that the course I design
      meets those expectations.
          
---

Making good progress on the missing learning objective stuff:

* The course headings are inserted into the right place,
* The unit headings are inserted into the right place,
* I've got a handle on the learning objectives themselves.

The mistake(?) that I made is when collecting the objectives: I'm collecting
instances of `pf.Span` and not `pf.ListItem`. Getting the `pf.ListItem` *might*
be as trivial as using something like `ancestor(2)`. It was! Nice!

I mentioned before about the units being in some weird order. At first I thought
that wouldn't be a serious issue, but now that I can actually see it, it's
pretty annoying.

I'm *pretty* sure that the random ordering happens when I do set arithmetic on
the IDs. Let's check and see if all of the IDs that I collected are in order.
They are indeed. Instead of doing set arithmetic, I could just *manually* do the
arithmetic (e.g., test to see if the `id` is `not in` the referenced set). Not
very elegant, but...

That works, but the problem is that with the structure I've set up, I can only
ask if the `id` is `not in` the referenced set *after* I've already put the
header into the document. A solution to this problem is to build up the entire
unit/section, then insert it all in one go in the end after we've figured out
that there are (or are not) items to insert into the `pf.OrderedList`.

That worked, and was less difficult than expected, since I was already building
the `pf.OrderedList` before inserting it into the document. Nice!

---

Now that I can see the objectives that I'm missing from COMP 1010, I realize
that I need to elaborate on some of the learning objectives covered in COMP 1500
related to programming. When I went through the objectives the first time, I was
collecting them from the textbook without looking too much at the material that
I covered. The material that I covered in the actual class may not reflect the
materials. Specifically, I'm thinking about programming with Scratch: in COMP
1010 we have an objective for students to be able to evaluate arithmetic
expressions where in COMP 1500 we don't have an explicit objective for that,
it's bundled into programming with variables.

---

I've simplified as much as I think I can in the `Makefile`. The remaining thing
that *could* be simplified is that the rules to make `pdf` and `html` differ by
only one option (outside of the different file suffixes). If I go further into
this, I'm falling into a rabbit hole that has very little value coming out of
it. Good enough.
