To do:

* [X] Identify and mark objectives from COMP 1020 explicitly referred to by
      other courses.
    * [X] Figure out a dependency indicator (maybe it's just another tag?)
    * [X] Go through and mark the dependencies.
    * [X] Colour the dependencies.
* [ ] Start building the second half of the course based on known dependencies
      between first and second year courses.

---

Trying to figure out the dependency indicator. At first I thought I would use
the same syntax as other tags (e.g., `:2140:`), but I've got a few different
problems with that:

1. These values aren't *really* tags. Not directly equivalent, anyway.
2. The values will show up in the course objective barcode, and they don't
   really belong there.

I think I need to use some alternative syntax. Wrapping elements in symbols
seems to work fairly well as a discriminator between text and meta, so I'll
stick with that.

My first thought is to use angle brackets (`<>`), but I don't think I want that
to pull double duty.

My next thought is to use `^` (e.g., `^2140^`). I like the way it looks (points
up to the next course), but clashes with the superscript syntax. I'll check, but
I'm pretty sure pandoc will turn that into a superscript element before it even
hits my filter. Yeah, it totally does.

Let's dump out all symbol characters and eliminate what we *can't* use.

```
`~!@#$%^&*()-_=+[]\{}|;':",./<>?
```

* ``` can't be used, it turns into a monospace inline fragment.
* `~` can't be used. Double tilde (`~~`) turns into strikethrough in *some*
  markdown environments. pandoc turns it into subscript, so can't be used
  (though TIL).
* `!` could be used.
* `@` can't be used, pandoc turns it into a citation/reference.
* `#` could be used, surprisingly, I expected pandoc to turn it into a heading.
* `$` can't be used, it's an inline math/LaTeX fragment.
* `%` could be used.
* `^` can't be used, superscript.
* `&` could be used.
* `*` can't be used, italics.
* `()` can't be used individually. They *could* be, but I can't bring myself to
  do that. I use `()` to wrap stuff everywhere, it's used in plain English too
  much.
* `-` could be used.
* `_` can't be used, italics.
* `=` could be used.
* `+` could be used.
* `[]` can't be used individually and conflicts with linking syntax.
* `\` can't be used, pandoc turns it into inline LaTeX.
* `{}` can't be used, pandoc uses this to add attributes to elements.
* `|` could be used.
* `;` could be used.
* `"` can't be used, it's used in plain English too much.
* `'` can't be used, it's used in plain English too much.
* `,` can't be used, it's used in plain English too much.
* `.` can't be used, it's used in plain English too much.
* `/` could be used.
* `<>` can't be used, pandoc renders it as inline HTML.
* `?` could be used.

What we're left with is:

```
!#%&-=+|;/?
```

I'm going to remove `#` -- it's too close to the ID markers for HTML, and I want
to investigate separating tags and IDs. Of what's left, I think I'm going to use
`&`.

I don't really like that it's not highlighted in `vim`, but... I don't care?

No, I care, and today I learned something new: I can highlight words matching a
regular expression. Fun!

---

I got feedback from COMP 2140 and COMP 2150.

### COMP 2140

For COMP 2140, the assumptions/expectations for COMP 1020 students are:

* [X] Use composition to build data classes (i.e., classes using other classes
      for data members).
* [X] Describe the structure/idea of a linked list, but not necessarily
      implement a linked list.
* [X] Familiarity with the idea of recursion, but not necessarily able to read,
      explain, or write recursive methods/functions.
* [X] Do text I/O on a file.
* [X] Describe and implement linear search, binary search.
* [X] Describe how runtime of an $O(\log_2(n))$ or exponential algorithm is
      affected by input size (i.e., doubling or halving). Note that this is not
      actually a current outcome or objective for any courses before 2140.
  
I've asked for more feedback on file processing, algorithms, and complexity.

### COMP 2150

COMP 2150 isn't directly fed by COMP 1020. Instead, the path to COMP 2150 is
transitively through COMP 2140 and COMP 2160. I asked for feedback from COMP
2150 because of the heavy OO emphasis in COMP 1020. The feedback I received is
that students are assumed to be able to:

* Design and implement data structures (lines up with the expectation for COMP
  2140).
* Conduct automated testing on software (introduced in 1020, reinforced in
  2160).
* Use a build tool (not formally an objective in 1020, but is in 2160).
* Describe and use access modifiers to hide implementation details and apply
  encapsulation (introduced in 1020, reinforced in 2160, maybe 2140).
* Separate an interface from implementation (not formally an objective in 1020,
  but is in 2160).

The copy/paste objectives from 1020 are:

* [X] Write a class and subclasses in Java.
* [X] Use basic composition of classes as an alternative to inheritance.
* [X] Use access modifiers to restrict access to methods and data in a class.
* [X] Override behaviour in a subclass.
* [X] Evaluate code that calls overridden methods.
* [X] Implicit upcasting and explicit downcasting (safely, with `instanceof`).
* [X] Use of and overriding the `.equals` method from `Object`, requiring that
      we take an `Object` as an argument and must use `instanceof` in the method
      body. Note that this is not specifically an outcome in 1020.

There is explicitly no expectation that abstract classes are part of the
curriculum, and are covered from scratch in COMP 2150.

### COMP 2160

Expectations for 2160 are:

* [X] Write programs using a structured programming languages (e.g., conditional
      statements, loops, methods/functions, variables, types, user-defined types
      & classes, I/O on standard in and out).
* [X] Build basic data structures (specifically a linked list).
* [X] Write basic algorithms (searching and sorting).
* [X] Write classes that hide implementation details from other classes with
      access modifiers (`private`).
* [X] Write and use primitive, automated tests for software.

---

COMP 2080 and COMP 2280 are both winter term courses (along with COMP 2150), so
would not necessarily be direct dependencies. For now, I'm going to leave those
courses out of feedback, and focus on 21{4,5,6}0.
