---
title: COMP 1500
author: Franklin Bristow
date: 2020
header-includes:
    \usepackage{fullpage}
toccolor: blue
---

Course prerequisites {-}
====================

Students are not expected to satisfy *any* prerequisites before entering this
course.

Course outcomes {-}
===============

By the end of this course, a student should be able to:

1. Represent information abstractly and digitally. :represent:
2. Apply problem-solving skills. :problem-solving:
3. Use and evaluate computational ideas from first principles.
   :first-principles:
4. Use and evaluate algorithms. :algorithms:
5. Implement abstractions as software. :program:
6. Apply computer science concepts to solve problems in different disciplines in
   science. :concepts:
   
Learning objectives {-}
=======================

\setcounter{section}{1500}

Introduction
------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Label the components of a Turing machine. :first-principles#turing-machines:
2. Given a Turing machine and a tape, evaluate the output of the machine.
   :first-principles#evaluate-turing-machine:
3. Label all of the components of a von Neumann machine.
   :first-principles#label-von-neumann:
4. Classify contemporary computer components in the von Neumann architecture.
   :first-principles#classify-von-neumann-components:
5. List at least four areas of theoretical computer science.
   :first-principles#theoretical-computer-science:
6. Represent properties of and relationships between real-world objects as a
   mind-map. :represent#real-world-translation:
7. Identify interfaces between objects in the real world.
   :represent#interfaces-between-objects: 
8. Describe a problem in terms of inputs, outputs, and instructions to solve.
   :represent#problems-as-information: :problem-solving#decomposing-problems:
   :first-principles#problems-to-turing-machines:
   
Representing information digitally
----------------------------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. List at least 3 different [digital numeral systems].
   :represent#listing-number-systems:
2. Convert numbers between [digital numeral systems].
   :represent#converting-between-number-systems:
3. Represent information using switches. :represent#binary-as-on-and-off:
4. Represent text as numbers. :represent#text-as-numbers:
5. Explain how "data standards", formats, and encodings are required to
   facilitate digital communication. :represent#explain-standards-requirement:
6. Explain how an image can be represented digitally. :represent#digital-images:
7. Encode an image (black and white, grayscale, and colour) digitally and by
   hand, using a simple image format (e.g., [ppm]) :represent#encode-an-image:
8. Predict how an animation might be represented digitally.
   :represent#predict-animation:

[digital numeral systems]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radix
[ppm]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netpbm#File_formats

How computers work
------------------

### Logic and circuits

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Evaluate logical expressions. :first-principles#evaluate-logical-expressions:
2. Draw a truth table for a logical operator (e.g., `XOR`).
   :first-principles#truth-tables:
3. Translate between circuits and logical expressions.
   :first-principles#expressions-as-circuits:
4. Draw a half and full adder. :first-principles#draw-adders:
5. Evaluate the execution of a half adder given inputs.
   :first-principles#evaluate-adders:
6. Determine the purpose of a circuit (e.g., what arithmetic operation does this
   circuit implement?). :first-principles#circuits-to-arithmetic:
7. Predict the output of a circuit, given specific inputs.
   :first-principles#predict-the-output-circuits:
8. Explain how a circuit can be used to make a decision.
   :first-principles#conditional-circuits:

### General purpose computing

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Define the terms "ALU", "opcodes", and "assembly language".
   :first-principles#alu-terms:
2. Explain the purpose of an ALU in a CPU. :first-principles#purpose-of-alu:
3. Explain why using an assembly language is preferable to using binary to issue
   instructions to an ALU. :represent#instructions-and-numbers:
4. Give a physical example of temporary memory (e.g., pencil and paper).
   :first-principles#physical-analogs-to-memory:
5. Compare and contrast primary memory and secondary memory.
   :first-principles#compare-primary-secondary-memory:
6. Explain the purpose of a control unit in a CPU.
   :first-principles#control-unit-purpose:
7. Explain how memory can be addressed. :first-principles#memory-addressing:
8. Explain how data is moved from memory to registers.
   :first-principles#memory-to-registers:
9. Describe the relationship between Turing machines and the von Neumann
   architecture. :first-principles#turing-abstract-von-neumann-reality:
   
### Assembly language programming

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Write a program that conducts arithmetic, moving data between registers and
   memory. :program#assembly-language:
2. Write a program that accepts input and produces output. :program#io:
3. Write a program that branches conditionally and unconditionally.
   :program#branching:
4. Write a program that repeats a sequence of instructions. :program#repetition:

Apply problem-solving skills
----------------------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Define the term "algorithm". :problem-solving#define-algorithm:
2. Divide a big problem into smaller steps. :problem-solving#divide-and-conquer:
3. Search for data in a data set using at least two different search algorithms.
   :algorithms#apply-searching-algorithms:
4. Compare and contrast linear and binary search.
   :algorithms#compare-linear-binary-search:
    1. Rank searching algorithms by run-time complexity.
5. Decide whether or not a computer can solve a problem.
   :algorithms#halting-problem:
6. Sort information with at least two simple sorting algorithms.
   :algorithms#apply-sorting:
7. Measure the complexity of two simple sorting algorithms.
   :algorithms#sorting-complexity:

Implement abstractions as software
----------------------------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1.  Find errors in a program in a simple programming language.
    :program#find-errors:
2.  Rewrite a plain-English solution as a program in a simple programming
    language. :program#write-program-given-solution:
3.  Compare and contrast "high-level programming languages" with "assembly
    languages". :program#compare-high-level-with-assembly:
4.  Create a simple, sequential program in a high-level visual programming
    language (e.g., Scratch). :program#visual-language-simple-sequence:
5.  Create a program that uses variables in a high-level visual programming
    language. :program#variables:
6.  Create a program that uses logical expressions in a high-level visual
    programming language. :program#logical-expressions:
7.  Create a program that uses conditional statements in a high-level visual
    programming language. :program#conditional-statements:
8.  Create a program that uses looping structures in a high-level visual
    programming language. :program#looping:
9.  Create a program that uses "custom blocks" (functions) in a high-level visual
    programming language. :program#custom-functions:
10. Create a program that takes input and produces output in a high-level visual
    programming language. :program#visual-io:
11. Create a program that uses random numbers in a high-level visual programming
    language. :program#random-numbers:
    
Topics in CS
------------

The remaining units should introduce students to high-level algorithms, data
structures, and concepts related to different domain areas in computer science.
Some examples of domain areas and subject matter include:

1. Bioinformatics: sequence assembly with graphs, sequence alignment with
   dynamic programming. :concepts#bioinformatics:
2. Cryptography: simple ciphers (Caesar), decryption with frequency analysis,
   public key cryptography. :concepts#cryptography:
3. Machine learning and AI: neural networks, training.
   :concepts#machine-learning-ai:
   
