---
title: COMP 1000
author: Franklin Bristow
date: 2020
header-includes:
    \usepackage{fullpage}
    \usepackage{appendix}
toccolor: blue
---

Course prerequisites {-}
====================

Before entering this course, a students should be able to:

* Evaluate arithmetic expressions, applying the rules of order of operation to
  basic arithmetic operators (&plus;, &minus;, &times;, &divide;).

Importantly: students are *not* expected to have any previous programming
experience.

Course outcomes {-}
===============

Part 1: Computing
------

By the end of part 1 of this course, a student should be able to:

1. Represent basic information and ideas abstractly, and digitally. :represent:
2. Use and evaluate computational ideas from first-principles (logic &rarr;
   circuits &rarr; processors & computers). :first-principles:
3. Implement abstractions as software (assembly language, visual language).
   :program:
4. Use and evaluate searching algorithms. :algorithms:
5. Gain a better understanding of computer science as a discipline. :concepts:

Part 2: Programming
------

By the end of part 2 of this course, a student should be able to:

1. Transfer programming skills to a new programming language. :program:
2. Use and implement data structures to represent complex information.
   :data-structures:
3. Write code that can handle failures gracefully. :exceptions:
4. Apply searching and sorting algorithms to collections, compare efficiency.
   :algorithms:
5. Formulate recursive solutions to problems and write recursive methods.
   :recursion:

Learning objectives {-}
===================

Part 1: Computing
------

### Represent information

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [*comp1500-real-world-translation] 
2. [*comp1500-decomposing-problems]
3. [*comp1500-listing-number-systems]
4. [*comp1500-converting-between-number-systems]
5. [*comp1500-binary-as-on-and-off]
6. [*comp1500-text-as-numbers]
7. [*comp1500-explain-standards-requirement]
8. [*comp1500-digital-images]
9. [*comp1500-encode-an-image]
10. [*comp1500-predict-animation]

### Logic and Circuits

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [*comp1500-evaluate-logical-expressions]
   [=comp1010-evaluate-boolean-expressions-logical-operators]
2. [*comp1500-truth-tables]
3. [*comp1500-expressions-as-circuits]
4. [*comp1500-draw-adders]
5. [*comp1500-evaluate-adders]
6. [*comp1500-circuits-to-arithmetic]
7. [*comp1500-predict-the-output-circuits]
8. [*comp1500-conditional-circuits]

### General purpose computing

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [*comp1500-alu-terms]
2. [*comp1500-purpose-of-alu]
3. [*comp1500-instructions-and-numbers]
4. [*comp1500-physical-analogs-to-memory]
5. [*comp1500-compare-primary-secondary-memory]
6. [*comp1500-control-unit-purpose]
7. [*comp1500-memory-addressing]
8. [*comp1500-memory-to-registers]

### Assembly language programming

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [*comp1500-assembly-language] [~comp1010-write-and-run]
2. [*comp1500-io] [=comp1010-accept-use-input]
3. [*comp1500-branching] [~comp1010-use-conditional-statements]
4. [*comp1500-repetition] [~comp1010-use-basic-loops]

### Algorithms

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [*comp1500-define-algorithm]
2. [*comp1500-divide-and-conquer] [~comp1010-apply-top-down-design]
3. [*comp1500-apply-searching-algorithms] [~comp1010-linear-search]
   [~comp1010-binary-search]
4. [*comp1500-compare-linear-binary-search]
   [=comp1010-measure-search-complexity] [=comp1010-use-complexity-to-compare]
   [=comp1010-data-requirements-for-algorithms]

### Programming in Scratch (or JavaScript)

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [*comp1500-write-program-given-solution]
2. [*comp1500-compare-high-level-with-assembly]
3. [*comp1500-visual-language-simple-sequence] [=comp1010-write-and-run]
   [=comp1010-write-evaluate-arithmetic-expressions] 
4. [*comp1500-variables] [=comp1010-declare-use-variables]
   [=comp1010-use-named-constants]
5. [*comp1500-logical-expressions]
   [~comp1010-evaluate-boolean-expressions-logical-operators]
6. [*comp1500-conditional-statements] [=comp1010-use-conditional-statements]
7. [*comp1500-looping] [=comp1010-use-basic-loops]
8. [*comp1500-custom-functions] [=comp1010-write-simple-functions]
9. [*comp1500-visual-io] [=comp1500-io] [=comp1010-accept-use-input]
10. [*comp1500-random-numbers]

### Topics in CS

Part 2: Programming
------

### Programming in Java

Learning objectives not covered in COMP 1000 {#missing-objectives -}
============================================

`<h1>Appendix</h1>`{=html}

\appendix
\appendixpage
\addappheadtotoc
