---
title: COMP 1010
author: Franklin Bristow
date: 2020
header-includes:
    \usepackage{fullpage}
toccolor: blue
---

Course prerequisites {-}
====================

Before entering this course, a student should be able to:

* Evaluate arithmetic expressions, applying the rules of order of operation to
  basic arithmetic operators (&plus;, &minus;, &times;, &divide;).
* Use trigonometric functions to calculate angles.
* Download and install software on a computer.

Importantly: students are **not** expected to have any previous programming
experience.

Course outcomes {-}
===============

By the end of this course, a student should be able to:

1. Write and run moderately complex programs using a procedural programming
   language. :program:
2. Read and evaluate written programs. :evaluate:
3. Describe basic programming concepts and structures in plain English.
   :communicate:
4. Represent ideas and information in a way that computers can understand and
   act on. :represent:
5. Analyze and implement basic searching algorithms. :algorithms:


Learning objectives {-}
===================

\setcounter{section}{1010}

Programming Basics
------------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Use an integrated development environment (IDE) to write and run a simple,
   linear program using a procedural programming language.
   :program#write-and-run: 
    1. Use *literal values* in a program.
    2. Describe what code does using *comments*.
  
IDE
: Software that simplifies writing software in a *specific* programming
language.

Examples of IDEs:

(@) [Processing] is an IDE for writing software in the Processing programming
language.
(@) [DrJava] is an IDE for writing software in the Java programming language.
(@) [Spyder] is an IDE for writing software in the Python programming language.

[Processing]: https://processing.org/
[DrJava]: http://drjava.org/
[Spyder]: https://www.spyder-ide.org/

### Programming Basics: Processing

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Draw points, lines, and shapes on the Processing canvas.
   :program#processing-shapes:
2. Change properties of shapes and the canvas, like background colour, outline
   colour, fill colour, size, position, and line weight.
   :program#processing-shape-properties:

Variables and Integers
----------------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Declare and use a variable in a program to represent information.
   :represent#symbols-for-values: :program#declare-use-variables:
    1. Initialize a variable using a literal value.
2. Write and evaluate arithmetic expressions (&plus;, &minus;, &times;,
   &divide;, mod) that include both literal values and variables.
   :program#write-arithmetic-expressions:
   :evaluate#evaluate-arithmetic-expressions:
3. Explain the purpose of the modulus operator. :communicate#explain-modulus:
    1. List uses of the modulus operator.
4. Debug simple errors by inspecting the value of a variable as the program is
   running. :program#basic-print-debugging:
5. Identify compile-time errors in a fragment of code (e.g., incorrect case on
   function names, duplicated variable names, non-existent variables).
   :evaluate#find-compile-errors:
   
Coding Style and Standards
--------------------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Choose meaningful variable names that make code more readable.
   :program#use-meaningful-names: :communicate#choose-meaningful-names:
2. Declare and use *named constants* in a program. :program#use-named-constants:
3. Identify values that should be represented as a named constant.
   :represent#identify-constant-values:
4. Explain how named constants can be used as a safety feature.
   :communicate#named-constants-safety:
5. Compare and contrast named constants and regular variables.
   :communicate#compare-constants-and-variables:

Active Programs
---------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Use a "global variable" in a program to maintain state.
   :represent#state-of-application: :program#use-global-variable:
2. Write a program that accepts and reacts to input from a user.
   :program#accept-use-input:

### Active Programs: Processing

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Use the global variables exposed in the Processing environment as input to a
   program, like mouse position ([`mouseX`] and [`mouseY`]).
   :program#processing-cursor-position:
2. Write a program that changes the canvas as time passes.
   :program#processing-time:
3. List the special function names that are used in Processing.
   :communicate#processing-list-special-functions:
4. Order the function names by when they are executed when a Processing program
   is started. :communicate#processing-order-special-functions:
5. Explain the purpose of each of the special function names used in Processing.
   :communicate#processing-communicate-purpose-of-special-functions:
   
[`mouseX`]: https://processing.org/reference/mouseX.html
[`mouseY`]: https://processing.org/reference/mouseY.html

User-defined Functions, part 1
------------------------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Create and use user-defined functions that accept no inputs and do not
   `return` any data, in a program. :program#write-simple-functions:
    1. Choose a concise and meaningful name for a user-defined function.
2. Identify a syntactically correct function signature from a list of
   function signatures. :evaluate#identify-function-signature:
3. Trace the execution of code when user-defined functions are called.
   :evaluate#trace-execution-with-functions:
4. Define the term "local variable". :communicate#define-term-local:
5. Determine the visibility of a variable declared in a program.
   :evaluate#determine-scope-of-variable:
6. Define the term "scope" in terms of variable visibility when declared within
   a function. :communicate#define-term-scope:
7. Compare and contrast local and global variables.
   :communicate#compare-local-global-scope:

Real Numbers - `float`s
-----------------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Declare and use floating-point-type variables in a program.
   :represent#symbols-for-float: :program#use-floating-point:
2. Evaluate an expression containing floating point numbers.
   :evaluate#evaluate-float-expression:
3. Determine the type of the result of evaluating an expression.
   :evaluate#determine-expression-type:
4. Use compound assignment/arithmetic operators (e.g., `+=`, `++`).
   :program#use-compound-operator:
5. Explain the difference between integers and real numbers.
   :communicate#explain-difference-number-types:
6. Explain how and why floating point numbers are limited when being represented
   in binary by a computer. :represent#binary-for-numbers:
   :communicate#limitations-of-binary-representation:
7. Use language libraries for evaluating trigonometric or other math functions.
   :program#call-math-library-functions:

### Real Numbers - `float`s: Processing

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Use the canvas size to change the behaviour of a program ([`width`],
   [`height`]). :program#processing-canvas-size:
   
[`width`]: https://processing.org/reference/width.html
[`height`]: https://processing.org/reference/height.html

Text and Strings
----------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Create and use `String`-type variables in a program.
   :represent#represent-text: :program#create-use-strings:
    1. Combine multiple `String`s together using the concatenation operator.
    2. Call an instance method on a `String` to get its length.
    3. Access individual characters in a `String`, by *index*.
2. Convert between number types and `String` types.
   :represent#differences-numbers-characters: :program#convert-numbers-strings:
3. Explain why number types cannot be assigned to `String` types, and
   vice-versa. :communicate#:
4. Create and use a `char`-type variable in a program.
   :represent#represent-single-character: :program#create-user-char:
5. Evaluate expressions that operate on `String`s.
   :evaluate#evaluate-string-expressions:
    1. Calling instance methods.
    2. Concatenation operator.
    3. Order of operations (e.g., `"hello" + (10 + 2)`).

### Text and Strings: Processing

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Draw text on the canvas. :program#processing-draw-text:

Data Types and Memory
---------------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Choose a specific number type to represent a value, minimizing required
   memory (e.g., `double` vs `float` vs `long` vs `int` vs `short`).
   :program#use-different-number-types:
   :represent#choose-appropriate-size-numbers:
2. Convert between number types using explicit and implicit casts.
   :program#casting-between-number-types:
3. Evaluate an expression containing implicit and explicit casts.
   :evaluate#evaluate-casting-in-expression:
4. Explain what happens to a numeric value when explicit down-casting is
   applied. :communicate#explain-effects-of-casting:
5. Define the term "Integer overflow". :communicate#define-integer-overflow:

True and False - Booleans
-------------------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Declare and use `boolean` variables in a program.
   :program#create-and-use-boolean-variables:
   :represent#represent-true-and-false:
2. Evaluate `boolean` expressions with logical operators (e.g., `and`, `or`,
   `not`). :evaluate#evaluate-boolean-expressions-logical-operators:
3. Use conditional statements (`if` and `else`) in a program.
   :program#use-conditional-statements:
    1. Use *nested* conditional statements in a program.
5. Decide if a variable is visible (scope) in a nested block.
   :evaluate#evaluate-scope-in-nested-blocks:

### True and False - Booleans: Processing

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Use keyboard and mouse state (keys pressed or not) to affect the behaviour of
   a program ([`mousePressed`], [`keyPressed`]).
   :program#processing-use-mouse-click-state:
   
[`mousePressed`]: https://processing.org/reference/mousePressed.html
[`keyPressed`]: https://processing.org/reference/keyPressed.html

Advanced Conditionals
---------------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Use relational operators to compare number types in a program (e.g., `>`,
   `<`, `>=`, `<=`, `==`, etc). :program#use-relational-operators:
2. Evaluate Boolean expressions containing both logical and relational
   operators. :evaluate#evaluate-complex-boolean-expression: 
3. Call an instance method on a `String` to *compare* it to another instance of
   `String`. :program#string-comparison:
4. Write *concise* logical expressions (i.e., write `if(x)`, **not**
   `if(x==true)`). :program#no-extraneous-boolean-comparison:
5. Explain why floating-point numbers cannot be directly compared for equality.
   :communicate#explain-float-equality:
6. Use and evaluate "short-circuit" logical expressions in a program.
   :program#use-short-circuit-boolean-expressions:
   :evaluate#evaluate-short-circuit-boolean-expressions:
7. Use nested `else if` blocks in a program. :program#else-if-nested-blocks:
8. Evaluate a code snippet containing complex conditional statements and logical
   expressions. :evaluate#evaluate-conditional-structures:

Loops
-----

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Write code that repeats execution with loop control structures.
   :program#use-basic-loops:
    1. Use a `for` loop to repeat an operation on a fixed number of items
       (exactly $n$ times).
    2. Use a `while` loop to repeat an operation while some condition is `true`
       (0 or more times).
    3. Use a `do`/`while` loop to repeat an operation while some condition is
       `true` (1 or more times).
    4. Choose the appropriate looping structure for a specific situation.
2. Convert code that uses a `for` loop to a `while` loop, and vice-versa.
   :program#convert-for-to-while:
3. Evaluate the execution of a loop control structure.
   :evaluate#evaluate-loop-execution:
    1. List the order of operations for both `for` and `while` loop control
       structures in Java/Processing.
4. Discover the cause of crashing software by inspecting a stack trace.
   :program#debug-with-stack-trace:
   
Advanced Loops
--------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Write code that uses a nested looping structure to solve a problem.
   :program#use-nested-loops:
    1. Identify when a nested loop should be used to solve a problem.
2. Evaluate the execution of a nested looping structure.
   :evaluate#evaluate-nested-loop-execution:
    1. List the order of operations of a nested looping structure.
    2. List the state of variables in a nested looping structure.
3. Write code that uses arbitrarily nested control structures (i.e., conditional
   statements, loops) to solve a problem.
   :program#use-nested-mixed-control-structures:
4. Manage the state of execution by using using a boolean variable to indicate
   that an event has happened. :program#use-flags-for-events:
   
User Defined Functions Part 2
-----------------------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Apply top-down programming to simplify and solve complex problems.
   :algorithms#apply-top-down-design:
    1. Break a problem down into smaller, functional units.
    2. Decide how much logic belongs in a single function.
    3. Decide what inputs and outputs a function requires based on what it
       will do.
2. Use stub functions to help write code for a previously broken-down problem.
   :program#stubs-for-design:
3. Create and use user-defined functions that accept one or more parameters
   and/or `return` data to the caller in a program.
   :program#functions-with-params-return:
    1. Choose when to use globally-scoped variables and when to use
       locally-scoped variables/function parameters.
    2. Pass data to a function by reference, and pass data to a function by
       value.
    3. Use sentinel values to communicate an exceptional situation or error.
4. Create and use an [accumulator] variable in a program.
   :program#accumulate-data:
    1. Iteratively build a `String` by appending characters to the empty string.
    2. Take a running sum of a value by adding numbers to zero.
    3. Choose an appropriate initial value for an accumulator variable.
5. List the state and scope of variables by tracing the execution of code when
   user-defined functions are called.
   :evaluate#evaluate-function-calls-variable-scope:
    1. Distinguish between multiple variables with the same name in different
       scopes.
6. Define the term "side-effects", in relation to calling functions, passing
   values by reference, and global variables. :communicate#define-side-effects:

[accumulator]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Accumulator_(computing)

Compiling and the Java Virtual Machine
--------------------------------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Describe the workflow that a computer takes, going from high-level code, to a
   computer program running on your computer.
   :communicate#describe-compile-workflow:
    1. Define the terms "compiler", "high-level language", "machine language",
       "virtual machine", "source code".
    2. Explain the purpose of a compiler.
    3. Explain the purpose of a virtual machine.

Array Basics
------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Create and use arrays in a program. :program#create-use-arrays:
   :represent#represent-data-collections:
    1. Get the length of an array.
    2. Iterate over an array with a loop.
    3. Initialize an array with literals.
2. List the limitations of an array. :communicate#list-array-limitations:
3. Compare and contrast `String`s and arrays.
   :communicate#compare-strings-arrays:

Arrays and Memory
-----------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Name the default value stored in an array, immediately after creation, based
   on type. :communicate#list-default-array-values-for-type:
2. Use and compare variables against `null`. :program#compare-values-with-null:
3. Copy the contents of one array to another. :program#copy-array-contents:
4. Compare the contents of two arrays. :program#compare-array-contents:
5. Compare and contrast arrays and primitive types.
   :communicate#explain-differences-between-primitives-and-arrays:
    1. Explain why the assignment operator does not copy the contents of an
       array.
    2. Explain why the equality relational operator does not compare the
       contents of two arrays.

Arrays and Functions
--------------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Use arrays as arguments and return values to and from functions.
   :program#functions-with-array-params-return:
    1. Modify data in an array passed as an argument.
2. Explain why arrays as arguments behave differently from primitive variables.
   :communicate#explain-function-array-relationship-scope-heap:
   
Working with Arrays: Techniques
-------------------------------

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. Apply strategies for working with partially-filled arrays.
   :program#use-partially-filled-arrays:
   :represent#choose-sentinel-values: :algorithms#use-pointers-or-sentinels:
   1. Use a "pointer" value (an index) to represent the next free location.
   2. Choose and use an appropriate "sentinel" value to represent unused
      locations in the array (e.g., `null`, negative numbers, numbers outside
      the range of values being represented).
2. Explain the limitations of partially-filled arrays.
   :communicate#explain-partially-filled-array-limitations:
    1. List strategies for overcoming the limitations of partially filled
       arrays.
3. Describe the linear search algorithm in plain English.
   :algorithms#linear-search: :communicate#explain-linear-search:
    1. Give an example of data where linear search might be used.
    2. Explain the limitations of linear search.
4. Implement the linear search algorithm on an array.
   :program#implement-linear-search:
5. Describe the binary search algorithm in plain English.
   :algorithms#binary-search:
   :communicate#explain-binary-search:
    1. Give an example of data where binary search might be used.
    2. Explain the limitations of binary search.
6. Implement the binary search algorithm on an array.
   :program#implement-binary-search:
7. Measure the complexity of linear search and binary search.
   :algorithms#measure-search-complexity:
8. Compare and contrast linear search and binary search.
   :algorithms#use-complexity-to-compare:
   :communicate#data-requirements-for-algorithms:
    1. State the requirements on data for binary search to be applied.
9. Use "parallel" arrays to represent compound information for a single entity
   (i.e., `name[0]` and `age[0]` represent the same person).
   :represent#representing-complex-data-with-parallel-arrays:
   :program#create-and-use-parallel-arrays:
