---
title: COMP 1000
author: Franklin Bristow
date: 2020
---

Course prerequisites {-}
====================

Before entering this course, a students should be able to:

* Evaluate arithmetic expressions, applying the rules of order of operation to
  basic arithmetic operators (&plus;, &minus;, &times;, &divide;).

Importantly: students are *not* expected to have any previous programming
experience.

Course outcomes {-}
===============

Part 1: Computing {-}
------

By the end of part 1 of this course, a student should be able to:

1. Represent basic information and ideas abstractly, and digitally. :represent:
2. Use and evaluate computational ideas from the ground-up (logic &rarr;
   circuits &rarr; processors & computers). :ground-up:
3. Implement abstractions as software (assembly language, visual language).
   :program:
4. Use and evaluate searching and sorting algorithms. :algorithms:
5. Gain a better understanding of computer science as a discipline. :concepts:

Part 2: Programming {-}
------

By the end of part 2 of this course, a student should be able to:

1. Transfer programming skills to a new programming language and gain *new*
   programming skills to support more complex problems. :program:
2. *Apply* searching and sorting algorithms to collections, compare efficiency.
   :algorithms:
3. Use and implement classes to represent complex, real-world information
   digitally. :oo:
4. Read structured records from files into the complex classes you've created.
   :files:
5. Use and implement data structures to represent complex, *abstract*
   information. :data-structures:
6. Formulate recursive solutions to problems and write recursive methods.
   :recursion:

Learning objectives {-}
===================

Computing
---------

### Computer science: what even is it?

Before you start looking at how to apply concepts from computer science using
computers, you should get a more holistic idea of computer science by surveying
the disciplines *within* computer science.

#### Ideas for instruction {-}

1. Approachable problems and problem descriptions that require *no* knowledge of
   computer science, and no use of computers on the part of the student.
    * For example: crypto and caesar ciphers could be a simple cryptogram. You
      can draw pictures of graphs for short sequence assemblies without having
      to write code.
2. Visits by grad students: A day in the life.
3. Visits by co-op students: Where have they worked? Where do they want to work?
4. Visits by faculty: What do they study? How do they study that?

#### Objectives {-}

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. List and describe at least 2 different subdisciplines of computer science
   (name of subdiscipline, what the subdiscipline studies, how it studies
   that). :concepts: [=comp1500-theoretical-computer-science] 
2. Approach upper-year and grad students either directly or through student
   clubs for guidance. :concepts:
   
Some examples of subdisciplines and problems that students might look at:

1. [*comp1500-bioinformatics]
2. [*comp1500-cryptography]
3. [*comp1500-machine-learning-ai]
4. ...

### What even is a computer?

Now that you have an idea of what computer science is, and who computer
scientists are, we need to spend a little bit of time getting on the same page
about what we mean by "computer".

In this unit, we'll spend some time looking at the etymology of the word
"computer" and how the meaning of the word has changed over the last century.

We're also going to try to put together a list of things that a computer is
capable of computing.

#### Ideas for instruction {-}

* Take a historical tour through computing. What's the etymology of the word?
* Give students examples of problems and ask them to decide if they can or
  cannot solve the problem (without *trying* to solve the problem).
* Take a look at "[Turing & The Halting Problem]" on Computerphile.

[Turing & The Halting Problem]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=macM_MtS_w4

#### Objectives {-}

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. List and explain at least two different interpretations of the word
   "computer". :concepts:
2. List key contributors to what has become modern computing, and describe the
   contributions they have made. :concepts:
2. Give an example of a problem that a computer is capable of solving.
   :concepts: :ground-up: [~comp1500-halting-problem]
3. Give an example of a problem that a computer is **not** capable of solving.
   :concepts: :ground-up: [~comp1500-halting-problem]
4. Describe the "halting problem". :ground-up: :concepts:
   [=comp1500-halting-problem]

### How do you represent *stuff*?

We've learned that computers aren't really very smart, but when we consider the
things that computers *can* do, they seem truly magical, and appear to be able
to go way beyond the kinds of problems that they're actually capable of solving.
How do they do that?

Now we're going to spend some time thinking about how to **abstract** ideas and
information in such a way that computers can actually do something with them.

#### Ideas for instruction {-}

* Have students draw a mind map, try to be as detailed as possible.
* Have students convert between number systems.
* Get students to independently make their own communication protocol, then have
  them try communicating between each other. This could be a group activity.
* Have students encode images in, e.g., [ppm].

#### Objectives {-}

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [*comp1500-real-world-translation] 
2. Find examples of how things in the real world *interact* with each other.
   :represent: [=comp1500-interfaces-between-objects]
3. [*comp1500-decomposing-problems]
4. [*comp1500-listing-number-systems]
5. [*comp1500-converting-between-number-systems]
6. [*comp1500-binary-as-on-and-off]
7. [*comp1500-text-as-numbers]
8. [*comp1500-explain-standards-requirement]
9. [*comp1500-digital-images]
10. [*comp1500-encode-an-image]
11. [*comp1500-predict-animation]

### How can we *compute* stuff?

Now we can represent information, but that's still not very smart ---
information, by itself, doesn't *do* anything no matter how we choose to
represent it.

In order to make our machines *do* something, we need to take a small diversion
into *philosophy*. We're also going to take a diversion into some truly abstract
representations of what "computing" something really means. We'll meet some
interesting characters (Turing, Boole), and, ideally, take a look at computing
and computation from a historical and international perspective.

#### Ideas for instruction {-}

* Give the students a basic primer on logical expressions, then ask them to
  evaluate them.
* Use truth tables to list all possible states of a logical expression.
* Crash course computer science has [a good video on Alan Turing], with a
  description of Turing machines.

[a good video on Alan Turing]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7TycxwFmdB0

#### Objectives {-}

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [*comp1500-evaluate-logical-expressions]
   [=comp1010-evaluate-boolean-expressions-logical-operators]
2. [*comp1500-truth-tables]
3. [*comp1500-turing-machines]
4. [*comp1500-evaluate-turing-machine]

### How do we do logic *physically*?

All this logic and philosophy doesn't seem very tangible --- we can't *touch*
truthiness or falseness. We can sure think about them, filling in tables, and
feeling confident about assertions of true or false statements, but there's
still some pretty big gaps in our body of knowledge:

* How do we *physically* represent logic? We've spent a lot of effort trying to
  represent physical things abstractly, but now we have to spend some effort
  doing the reverse.
* How do we actually *do* something with logic? We're going to take a look at
  how to do basic arithmetic using logic!
* How do we use logic to help us make decisions? Computers *don't* just do
  simple arithmetic, they seem to be able to make decisions --- how can we do
  something like that?
  
#### Ideas for instruction {-}

1. Use an online circuit simulator, like <https://logic.ly>.
2. Some images that I've seen floating around building logic gates physically:
    * [Logic gates with dominoes]
    * [Logic gates with water]
3. Give the students circuits without telling them what the operation is (e.g.,
   demonstrate adders, show them a multiplier) and ask them to figure out what
   the operation is by evaluating the circuit on different inputs.

[Logic gates with dominoes]:
https://www.reddit.com/r/geek/comments/gvw4iy/logic_gates_using_dominoes/
[Logic gates with water]:
https://twitter.com/page_eco/status/1188749430020698112?lang=en

#### Objectives {-}

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [*comp1500-expressions-as-circuits]
2. [*comp1500-draw-adders]
3. [*comp1500-evaluate-adders]
4. [*comp1500-circuits-to-arithmetic]
5. [*comp1500-predict-the-output-circuits]
6. [*comp1500-conditional-circuits]

### Scaling up: General purpose computing

OK, cool! Now we can actually start *doing* things with computers, but we're
currently limited to basic arithmetic and simple decisions, and that doesn't
really represent what a modern computer is capable of doing (or is it?).

In order to start thinking about *real* computers, we're going to have to take a
bit of a leap and start thinking about some of their parts abstractly (what does
that word mean again?).

We're going to take a look at a specific *kind* of computer architecture (the
*von Neumann architecture*), where that computer architecture uses the basic
building blocks that we learned about in the previous chapter. The really
significant differences between what we've seen and what we're going to look at
is that these computers can *remember* things, and they can get *input* and
provide *output* (we can tell them what to operate on, and they can tell us a
result).

#### Ideas for instruction {-}

* Ken Shirriff has some great posts with microscopic photos of processors.
    * [8008](http://www.righto.com/2016/12/die-photos-and-analysis-of_24.html)
    * [8086](http://www.righto.com/2020/06/a-look-at-die-of-8086-processor.html)
* In terms of addressing memory: ask the students to play "Battleship" or some
  similar game -- they're physically addressing by calling out locations on a
  grid.
* Get students to come up with real-life examples of their own primary and
  secondary memory.

#### Objectives {-}

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [*comp1500-label-von-neumann]
2. [*comp1500-classify-von-neumann-components]
3. [*comp1500-turing-abstract-von-neumann-reality]
4. [*comp1500-alu-terms]
5. [*comp1500-purpose-of-alu]
6. [*comp1500-instructions-and-numbers]
7. [*comp1500-physical-analogs-to-memory]
8. [*comp1500-compare-primary-secondary-memory]
9. [*comp1500-control-unit-purpose]
10. [*comp1500-memory-addressing]
11. [*comp1500-memory-to-registers]

### PROGRAMMING!

At this point we've taken a few *giant* leaps up to something that barely
resembles the computers we've got in front of us: We have memory, input, output,
and a *thing* that can compute stuff. But we're still missing something: how do
we tell that thing *what to do*? How do we communicate with it?

To be able to communicate with a computer, *we* need to learn a new language ---
a computer isn't smart enough to understand human languages, and human languages
aren't precise enough to tell a computer unambiguously what we want it to do.

We've learned that machines operate on numbers, specifically *binary* numbers.
We're going to learn an "assembly language", a language that can be translated
literally and directly into binary. The language that we learn will give us the
ability to write down the instructions that we want to give to a computer in a
way that the computer can understand and act on.

#### Ideas for instruction {-}

* Have the students actually write some simple programs in class, on paper.
* The assembly language has several different interpreters, see [C1500 Mark III]
  and [COMP 1500 Assembly Emulator].
  
[C1500 Mark III]: https://www.cs.umanitoba.ca/~comp1500/
[COMP 1500 Assembly Emulator]: https://github.com/fbristow/c1500-emulator

#### Objectives {-}

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [*comp1500-assembly-language] [~comp1010-write-and-run]
   [~comp1010-use-literals]
2. [*comp1500-io] [=comp1010-accept-use-input]
3. [*comp1500-branching] [~comp1010-use-conditional-statements]
4. [*comp1500-repetition] [~comp1010-use-basic-loops]

### Algorithms

Communicating with the machine how to compute what you want is just the first
part of being a computer scientist. Computer science also studies the common
operations and results that you might tell a computer how to compute: finding
things, ordering things, relating things to one another. These operations and
results are referred to as "algorithms".

We're going to take a step back from programming for a second, back to the world
of abstraction. We're going to look at some very common algorithms that all
computer scientists know and use. The algorithms that we're going to look at are
*so* common, in fact, that you've definitely used these algorithms to find or
order physical things in your own life.

#### Ideas for instruction {-}

* Get a collection of physical objects that you can ask students to "find"
  things by a specific property.
* Get a collection of physical objects that you can ask students to "sort"
  things by a specific property.
* After instruction on searching and sorting algorithms, ask the students to
  apply the operations literally on their collection of things, ask them to make
  some observations about what the algorithms are doing.
* Ask the students to compare their own ad hoc searching and sorting approaches
  to the searching and sorting algorithms you've given them instruction on. Is
  it *possible* for a computer to do the kinds of searching and sorting they're
  doing? Is what they're doing in any way equivalent to what the algorithms are
  doing?

#### Objectives {-}

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [*comp1500-define-algorithm]
2. [*comp1500-divide-and-conquer] [~comp1010-apply-top-down-design]
3. [*comp1500-apply-searching-algorithms] [~comp1010-linear-search]
   [~comp1010-binary-search] [~comp1020-list-searching-algorithms]
4. [*comp1500-compare-linear-binary-search]
   [=comp1010-measure-search-complexity] [=comp1010-use-complexity-to-compare]
   [=comp1010-data-requirements-for-algorithms]
   [=comp1020-compare-searching-algorithms]
   [=comp1010-limitations-of-linear-search]
   [=comp1010-limitations-of-binary-search]
   [=comp1020-complexity-and-data-requirements]
5. [*comp1500-apply-sorting] [=comp1020-describe-basic-sorting-algorithms]
7. [*comp1020-compare-sorting-algorithms]
8. [*comp1500-sorting-complexity] [=comp1020-complexity-of-sorting-algorithms]
9. [*comp1020-choose-an-algorithm-based-on-data]

### Programming (like, for real this time)

Nothing that we've done so far applies to a *real* computer: representing
information doesn't *do* anything; logic and circuits are too abstract and low
level to accomplish anything meaningful; processors *describe* the kinds of
machine that we're using, but in too abstract of a way; the assembly language we
used isn't even a *real* assembly language; algorithms are, by definition,
abstractions!

So let's fix that! Now we're going to look at a *real* programming language on a
*real* device: the [micro:bit]!

The micro:bit editor gives us the ability to create programs in two ways:

1. Using a visual editor with blocks that look like puzzle pieces, or
2. Using a programming language called JavaScript.

The choice for how you want to create your program is entirely up to you, but if
you plan on moving to COMP 1000 pt 2, your transition will be *easier* if you
start taking a look at JavaScript here.

The assembly language that we looked at before is considered to be an
"unstructured" programming language --- it's literally just instructions. The
micro:bit editor provides us with a "structured" programming language and
environment. You will discover that many of the *concepts* that you've already
seen still fit into this environment, but the structured nature of this
environment makes it easier to build more complicated software, and on real
hardware.

[micro:bit]: https://makecode.microbit.org/

#### Ideas for instruction {-}

* The micro:bit environment is not strictly required here, and there are many
   web sites and environments that use effectively the same underlying
   technology. [Scratch] is the most popular, but doesn't let you see the
   underlying JavaScript. [code.org] is also popular and comes with many
   examples, but doesn't let you *edit* JavaScript (you can *see* it, but can't
   edit).
* Have the students actually [*buy* a micro:bit] (they're cheap, ~$20 for the
  base board itself, ~$25 with a battery and micro USB cable).
* Demonstrate *both* interfaces for programming (JS and visual editor), and
  permit students to choose which one they want to use to complete their
  assignments. Encourage students planning on going into CS to minimally *look
  at* the text-based editor.

[*buy* a micro:bit]: https://microbit.org/buy/

[Scratch]: https://scratch.mit.edu/
[code.org]: https://code.org

#### Objectives {-}

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [*comp1500-write-program-given-solution]
2. [*comp1500-compare-high-level-with-assembly]
3. [*comp1500-visual-language-simple-sequence] [=comp1010-write-and-run]
   [=comp1010-write-evaluate-arithmetic-expressions] [~comp1010-use-literals]
4. [*comp1500-variables] [=comp1010-declare-use-variables]
   [=comp1010-use-named-constants]
5. [*comp1500-logical-expressions]
   [~comp1010-evaluate-boolean-expressions-logical-operators]
6. [*comp1500-conditional-statements] [=comp1010-use-conditional-statements]
7. [*comp1500-looping] [=comp1010-use-basic-loops]
8. [*comp1500-custom-functions] [=comp1010-write-simple-functions]
9. [*comp1010-trace-execution-with-functions]
10. [*comp1010-define-term-local]
11. [*comp1010-define-term-scope]
12. [*comp1010-determine-scope-of-variable]
13. [*comp1500-visual-io] [=comp1500-io] [=comp1010-accept-use-input]
14. [*comp1500-random-numbers]

Programming
-----------

### Programming in Java (like, for *really* real this time)

Welcome to second term! We're going to kick off this term by learning how to
*really* program, using a **really real** programming language: Java. Learning
to program in a real programming language is a bit different from the
environment that you used before, but it's more directly applicable to
real-world situations.

Java is **everywhere** --- it's in your pockets, powering your favourite web
sites, crunching on scientific data, among many, *many* other places.

We're not going to learn everything about Java here, but instead we'll look at
*just enough* for us to get started in the next unit. Throughout the course,
we're going to be looking at lots of other Java-related topics.

#### Objectives {-}

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [*comp1020-choose-an-ide]
2. [*comp1020-download-install-jdk]
3. [*comp1010-write-and-run] [=comp1500-write-program-given-solution]
4. [*comp1010-declare-use-variables] [~comp1500-variables]
   [~comp1010-use-literals]
5. [*comp1020-use-naming-conventions]
6. [*comp1010-choose-meaningful-names]
7. [*comp1010-comments] 
8. [*comp1020-name-parts-of-method]
9. [*comp1010-write-simple-functions] [=comp1500-custom-functions]
10. [*comp1020-file-scoped-static-variables]
11. [*comp1010-functions-with-params-return]
12. Extract "sentinel" values into named constants.
    [=comp1010-identify-constant-values]
    [~comp1010-compare-constants-and-variables] :program:
13. [*comp1010-basic-print-debugging]
14. Get keyboard input using the `Scanner` class and the `nextInt` method.
     [~comp1010-accept-use-input] [~comp1020-input-with-scanner]
     [~comp1500-visual-io] [=comp1500-io] :program:

### *Implementing* searching and sorting

We've previously seen searching and sorting algorithms, but we only thought
about them abstractly, and maybe moved some things around on a table. While
those exercises were helpful to understand the concepts of searching and
sorting, we still can't tell computers *how* to find or order things.

To get a computer to find and order things, we need to be able to accomplish
several new tasks:

1. Represent *collections* of primitive information (arrays), and
2. Search through and sort collections of information in *code*.

#### Objectives {-}

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [*comp1010-represent-data-collections]
2. [*comp1010-create-use-arrays]
3. [*comp1010-list-default-array-values-for-type]
4. [*comp1010-functions-with-array-params-return]
5. [*comp1010-use-conditional-statements]
6. [*comp1010-else-if-nested-blocks]
7. [*comp1010-use-basic-loops] [=comp1010-evaluate-loop-execution]
8. [*comp1020-foreach-java-loops]
9. [*comp1010-implement-linear-search]
   [~comp1020-write-binary-and-linear-search]
10. [*comp1010-implement-binary-search]
   [~comp1020-write-binary-and-linear-search]
11. [*comp1020-compare-searching-algorithms]
12. [*comp1020-describe-basic-sorting-algorithms]
13. [*comp1020-write-sorting-algorithms]
14. [*comp1020-compare-sorting-algorithms]

### Representing complex information

While whole numbers give us the ability to reason about and implement some
algorithms in a fairly simple way (we can all universally agree that whole
numbers are ordered and that we can or cannot find one in a collection of them),
the real world isn't quite so simple. In the real world, we have *parts* of
things (fractions!). In the real world, we have things that *aren't* numbers at
all (words!). In the real world, we have real, physical things that we can touch
and use! Even in the world of abstractions, we've got ideas that aren't nearly
as simple as individual whole numbers: think way back to representing *pictures*.

Programming languages in general support more kinds of numbers than whole
numbers (`int`). We're going to start by taking a look at fractional numbers
("floating point"), then look at how to represent words (`String`).

Programming languages like Java also give us the ability to express how to
represent complex information using a concept called "classes". We're going to
use classes to represent complex information like physical things, and abstract
things that aren't just simple numbers.

#### Objectives {-}

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [*comp1010-use-floating-point]
2. [*comp1010-evaluate-float-expression]
3. [*comp1010-explain-difference-number-types]
4. [*comp1010-evaluate-casting-in-expression]
5. [*comp1010-explain-effects-of-casting]
6. [*comp1010-create-use-strings]
7. [*comp1020-escape-characters]
8. [*comp1010-string-comparison] 
9. [*comp1020-explain-basic-oo-concepts]
10. [*comp1020-create-and-use-a-class]
11. [*comp1010-create-and-use-boolean-variables]
12. [*comp1020-evaluate-method-overloading]
13. [*comp1020-composite-objects]
14. [*comp1020-write-self-referencing-classes]
15. [*comp1020-create-and-use-subclasses]
16. [*comp1020-decide-which-property-is-referred-to-in-scope]
17. [*comp1020-upcast-and-downcast-instances]
18. [*comp1020-design-a-hierarchy-before-use]
19. [*comp1020-describe-mental-model-of-hierarchy]

### Getting lots of information

So far all of the "input" that we've provided to our programs have been through
the keyboard, but with classes and collections, we're very quickly approaching
an unreasonable volume of data to be entering by keyboard, or hard-code in our
programs.

You *should* be familiar with the ideas of "files" and "folders" on your
computer. Even if a file is nothing more to you than an icon that, when
double-clicked on, opens up into a Word document, you should realize that a file
is a place where *information* is stored for the long-term (what kind of memory
was that?).

Now we're going to take a look at how to use files in our programs to work with
*lots* of data. Specifically, we're going to look at plain text files, and we're
going to learn how to get data out of a file and into the classes that we've
been building.

#### Objectives {-}

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [*comp1020-read-and-write-files] [=comp1020-read-from-a-file]
2. [*comp1020-write-code-to-read-files-handle-exceptions]
3. [*comp1010-convert-numbers-strings]
4. [*comp1020-tokenizing-strings]
5. [*comp1010-create-use-char]
6. [*comp1010-use-nested-loops]
7. [*comp1010-use-nested-mixed-control-structures]
8. [*comp1010-use-flags-for-events]
9. [*comp1010-accumulate-data]

### Data structures, abstract data types, and software design

We previously learned about arrays when we implemented searching and sorting
algorithms in Java. The main limitation of arrays, when working with data from
files, is that arrays have a *fixed size*.

We're now going to take a look at a new way to organize and represent
collections of information in our software: lists! We're also going to
*generalize* on the idea of representing collections by separating out what we
want to be able to do with something vs how it's actually done (interfaces and
implementations), and how to make decisions about how to separate those two
things from one another (software design).

By generalizing our idea of representing collections, we're actually taking our
first dip into data structures and abstract data types. One part of what we're
going to do here is to compare and contrast implementations to see which one is
best, and how to choose the best one for a specific situation.

#### Objectives {-}

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [*comp1020-compare-data-structures] [=comp1010-list-array-limitations]
   [=comp1020-differences-between-list-and-array]
2. [*comp1020-multi-file-compilation]
3. [*comp1020-automated-testing]
4. [*comp1020-create-and-use-linked-list-class]
   [=comp1020-lists-for-collections]
5. [*comp1020-array-as-list-data-structure]
6. [*comp1020-explain-differences-between-data-structures]
7. [*comp1020-choose-a-reasonable-data-structure]

### Recursion

The very last topic in the course is the most abstract, but it's going to help
us learn both about algorithms *and* how our programming languages and
environments can be used to encode abstract ideas.

Recursion is something you may have seen in an extremely abstract way in a
*math* class: [recurrence relations]. Think about things like the [Fibonacci
sequence], where each number in the sequence is defined by the numbers that come
before it ($F_n = F_{n-1} + F_{n-2}$).

We're going to look at recursion from two perspectives:

1. Using it as a tool to implement things like recurrence relations (both for
   numeric sequences and operations on data structures),
2. Making observations about what's happening under the covers of our
   programming language when we implement and run a recursive program.

[recurrence relations]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Recurrence_relation
[Fibonacci sequence]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fibonacci_number

#### Objectives {-}

By the end of this unit, students should be able to:

1. [*comp1020-write-recursive-code-given-algorithm]
2. [*comp1020-describe-mental-model-of-recursion-as-stack]
3. [*comp1020-explain-limitations-of-recursion]
4. [*comp1020-write-recursive-search-functions]

Learning objectives not covered in COMP 1000 {#missing-objectives -}
============================================

